&gt;&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO THE
CAPITOL. WE ARE GOING TO TRY AND
GIVE THEM  THE KIND OF PRIDE AND
BOLDNESS THAT THEY NEED TO TAKE
BACK OUR COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; DONALD JOHN TRUMP, PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES, IS
IMPEACHED FOR HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS. ARTICLE 1
, INCITEMENT OF INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; MOST REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO
BE --
AND THE PRESIDENT'S BEHAVIOR IS
NOT EXCITEMENT UNDER THE LAW.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS WILL DECIDE ON THE
ONE, TRUE QUESTION AT STAKE IN
THIS TRIAL. IS DONALD TRUMP
GUILTY OF INCITING A VIOLENT MOB
AGAINST THE UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt; YOU ARE LOOKING AT LIVE
PICTURES OF THE U.S. CAPITOL
WHICH HOUSES BOTH THE COURT OF
IMPEACHMENT AND  THE SCENE OF
THE CHARGE AT HAND. INCITEMENT
OF AN INSTRUCTION. PROSECUTORS
HAVE EIGHT MORE HOURS TODAY TO
MAKE THEIR CASE CHARGING DONALD
J TRUMP WITH HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS. THIS IS A
WASHINGTON POST SPECIAL REPORT.
I'M LIBBY CASEY. HOUSE MANAGERS
HAVE ARGUED THE ATTACK WAS
PREDICTABLE AND FORESEEABLE
BECAUSE OF THE FORMER
PRESIDENT'S PROVOCATIONS. TODAY
THEY WILL CONCLUDE THEIR CASE BY
FOCUSING ON JOHN'S WORDS,
ACTIONS AND LACK OF REMORSE.
WITH ME NOW, CAPITOL HILL
REPORTER RHONDA COLEMAN, JOYCE
CO., POLITICAL REPORTER AND
JAMES COLEMAN
, WASHINGTON POST COLUMNIST.
RHONDA, THE SENATE NEEDS A TWO
THIRDS MAJORITY TO CONVICT
DONALD TRUMP. THIS TRIAL IS TO
BUILD A CASE TO SHOW THE
EVIDENCE BUT ALSO TO BUILD
PUBLIC PRESSURE TO FORCE THE
SENATE TO ACT. WHAT ARE YOU
HEARING ON CAPITOL HILL AFTER
YESTERDAY'S REALLY HARROWING
RETELLING OF THE EVENTS OF
JANUARY 6?
&gt;&gt;
A LOT OF SENATORS, WHAT THEY
WITNESSED BY LOOKING AT THE
VIDEOS, THAN EVER BEFORE SEEN
SECURITY VIDEOS REALLY TOOK A
LOT OF SENATORS BACK TO JANUARY
6.
AND WHAT WE ARE HEARING IS THAT
YES, THEY WERE SHAKEN AND YES IT
WAS DIFFICULT TO WATCH. BUT YET
WE ARE NOT SEEING SIGNS YET THAT
TO THE 17 NEEDED TO JOIN
DEMOCRATS IN A CONVICTION VOTE
WILL HAPPEN. THAT HAS ALWAYS
BEEN AN UPHILL BATTLE
IN THIS IMPEACHMENT. ARGUMENT, A
LOT OF REPUBLICANS STARTED OFF
IN THE WEEKS AHEAD OF THE
IMPEACHMENT SAYING THIS WAS NOT
CONSTITUTIONAL. THAT IS WHAT
EARLIER THIS WEEK, WHEN THEY
TOOK A DAY TO EXAMINE IT, THEY
WERE CONTINUING TO SAY THAT.
THAT THIS IS NOT A CASE THAT HAS
ANY MERIT BECAUSE PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS NO LONGER PRESIDENT. SO
A LOT OF THEM ARE STILL STICKING
TO THAT, SAYING THAT SORT OF THE
OFFRAMP RIGHT NOW THAT THEY
DON'T THINK THIS CASE HAS MERIT
RIGHT NOW BECAUSE IT IS NOT
CONSTITUTIONAL. BUT THERE IS NO
DENYING THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
YESTERDAY HAD A VERY STRONG
CASE. THEY SPENT THE WHOLE DAY
DISSECTING THE WORDS OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP WHEN HE WAS IN
FRONT OF THE WHITE HOUSE TELLING
THE CROWD TO GO DOWN TO THE
CAPITOL, TELLING THE CROWD THAT
HE WOULD BE WITH THEM, WE WILL
BE WITH YOU. EVEN THOUGH THAT
DID NOT ACCORD. AND THEY WERE
ABLE, THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS WERE ABLE TO CONSTRUCT
THE TIMELINE  USING THE FOOTAGE
WE HAVE SEEN AND ALSO THE
FOOTAGE WE HAVE NOT SEEN FROM
SECURITY CAMERAS. AND WE WERE
ABLE TO SEE SORT OF ALL THE
PUZZLE PIECES COME TOGETHER, HOW
THE INSURRECTIONIST HAD A LOT OF
PLANNING. THEY WERE IN TACTICAL
GEAR, THEY HAD STUN GUNS, THEY
HAD ZIP TIES, THEY HAD MATERIALS
THAT SHOWED THIS WAS SOMETHING
THAT WAS MORE PLANNED THAN
PREVIOUSLY THOUGHT. THAN THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS BROUGHT ALL
OF THE ARGUMENTS TOGETHER LAST
NIGHT. ALSO POINTING OUT THAT
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE WAS IN VERY
CRITICAL DANGER. THEY SHOWED
SCENES OF HIM BEING USHERED OFF
TO A SAFE ROOM AND REALLY WANTED
TO USE THE PRESENCE OF MIKE
PENCE HERE ON THE HILL THAT DAY
AS A WAY TO TELL REPUBLICANS IN
THE SENATE THAT THIS IS -- THE
VICE PRESIDENT FROM YOUR PARTY
AND HIS RUNNING MATE, SOMEONE
HE STOOD BY FOR 4 YEARS DID NOT
ACT TO PROTECT THEM. INSTEAD,
RAMPED UP THE CROWD, TALKING
ABOUT HOW MIKE PENCE SHOULD HELP
THEM OUT. AND INTERRUPT THE
PROCEEDINGS ON JANUARY 6 TO
CERTIFY BIDEN AS THE ELECTION
WINNER. SO ALL OF THESE THINGS
WERE BROUGHT BACK OUT IN VIVID
DETAIL BY THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS YESTERDAY. SO THEY LAID
OUT THEIR CASE ACCORDING -- THEY
WILL CONTINUE TO DO THAT AND
SHOW THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS
NOT SHOWN ANY REMORSE OR
CONTRITION FOR THE ACTIONS AND
THAT IS HOW THEY ARE GOING TO
LEAVE IT TODAY. THIS IS THE LAST
DAY WE WILL SEE THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS. THEY CLOSE OUT THEIR
ARGUMENT AND WE WILL SEE
THE DEFENSE TEAM OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP, THEY COULD POSSIBLY START
TODAY BUT THEY WILL LIKELY START
IN EARNEST TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE SEEING IN ONE BOK
CENTER SCREEN IMAGES OF NATIONAL
GUARD TROOPS STILL IN THE
HOLLOWS OF THE CAPITOL.  WHAT IS
IT LIKE THIS MORNING?
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE STILL HERE. THAT IS
SOMETHING WE TALKED A LOT ABOUT
DURING THE
INAUGURATION OF JOE BIDEN. THAT
THERE WAS A HEAVY PRESENCE OF
NATIONAL GUARDSMEN AND WOMEN.
BUT THEY ARE STILL VERY MUCH
THROUGHOUT THE CAPITOL. YOU
CANNOT  BE ANYWHERE NEAR THE
CAPITOL OR THE OFFICE BUILDINGS
FOR SENATE AND HOUSE MEMBERS
VERY EASILY. THEIR SKATES ALL
AROUND THE PERIMETER THAT EXTEND
BLOCKS AWAY FROM THE CAPITOL.
THERE'S EXITS AND ENTRANCES THAT
ONLY
YOU CAN COME THROUGH IF YOU HAVE
A BADGE. LIKE WE DO AS MEMBERS
OF THE PRESS. AND OF COURSE,
STAFFERS AND MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS. BUT IT IS JUST A
REMINDER THAT THIS IS VERY MUCH
A CRIME SCENE. IT IS AN
IMPEACHMENT THAT IS HAPPENING
AGAINST THE BACKDROP OF A VERY
OPEN INVESTIGATION. THE FBI IS
INVESTIGATING THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
HERE. SO THERE ARE MORE DETAILS
EMERGING BECAUSE OF WHAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6. BUT IF
YOU
WANT TO HAVE ANY SORT OF
REMINDER, PHYSICAL REMINDERS OF
JANUARY 6, THEY ARE VERY MUCH
HERE ON THE HILL. IT IS VERY
HEAVILY PROTECTED AND WE HAVE
HEARD D.C. OFFICIALS HAVE ASKED
THAT WE
HAVE GATES BROUGHT DOWN
EVENTUALLY. WE KNOW THE ACTING
CHIEF OF POLICE, THE CHIEF OF
THE CAPITOL POLICE HAS SAID THEY
NEED TO STAY UP.
THE DISTURBING MATERIALS THEY
SEE FROM FBI REPORTS, THEY WANT
TO KEEP SECURITY IN THE
STRUCTURE UP FOR A A WHILE.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, LET'S GO TO YOU. ARE
WE SENSING MOVEMENT OR HEARING
OF ANY MOVEMENT
ON BEHALF OF REPUBLICANS, AS
THEY WEIGH THE EVIDENCE AND HAVE
TO DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT TO
CONVICT DONALD TRUMP?
&gt;&gt; LIBBY, IT WAS DEFINITELY A
POWERFUL MOMENT THAT REPUBLICANS
COULD NOT LOOK AWAY FROM. THE
HOURS OF VIDEO, THE NEVER BEFORE
SEEN VIDEO THAT FEATURED THEM.
THE PEOPLE WHO SEEMED MOST
MOVED, WHERE THE ONES MOST
WILLING TO CONVICT. WE SAW LISA
MURKOWSKI, THE REPUBLICAN FROM
ALASKA LAST NIGHT, SAY THAT THE
CASE IS QUITE COMPELLING. MITT
ROMNEY, WE SAW VIDEO OF HIM
WALKING TOWARD THE MOB AND
OFFICER EUGENE GOODMAN TURNING
HIM AROUND AND
MET ROMNEY RUNNING AWAY. A LOT
OF THE VIDEOS OF CLOSE CALLS,
FEATURED CHUCK SCHUMER WHO
OBVIOUSLY IS GOING TO END UP
CONVICTING AS DEMOCRATIC LEADER.
WE HAVE NOT SEEN ANY EVIDENCE IN
THE LAST 12 HOURS THAT
REPUBLICANS, WHO ARE INCLINED
NOT TO CONVICT HAVE MOVED. WE
HAVE HEARD A COUPLE OF
REPUBLICANS SAY IT WAS DEEPLY
MOVING AND THEY'RE CONTINUING TO
EMPHASIZE PROCEDURAL OBJECTIONS
SO THEY DON'T HAVE TO ACTUALLY
GRAPPLE WITH THE UNDERLYING
BEHAVIOR BY THE PRESIDENT. WE
ARE ALSO SEEING
AN INCREASING EMPHASIS BY
REPUBLICANS, LED BY TED CRUZ TO
SAY THAT WHAT HAPPENED DOESN'T
MEET THE LEGAL DEFINITION OF
INSURRECTION. THIS IS SOMETHING
WE ARE GOING TO HEAR MORE ABOUT
IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF DAYS,
ESPECIALLY FROM THE PRESIDENT
DEFENSE TEAM. TO SAY BY ANY KIND
OF LEGAL STANDARD -- BRANDENBURG
V OHIO, WHAT THE PRESIDENT IT
DOESN'T MEET THE STANDARD OF
INSTRUCTION. YOU SAW JAMIE
RASKIN TRYING TO ADDRESS THAT
WITH HIS REP ABOUT FIRE IN A
CROWDED THEATER. THIS IS WORSE
THAN YELLING FIRE IN A CROWDED
THEATER. IT IS LIKE A FIRE CHIEF
SETTING FIRE TO A CROWDED
THEATER AND NOT SENDING HELP.
YOU SEE REPUBLICANS KIND OF
SQUIRMING. YOU SEE SOME
CERTAINLY UNCOMFORTABLE PEOPLE
LIKE JAMES LANKFORD FROM
OKLAHOMA. USE THE BILL CASSIDY
FROM LOUISIANA MOVE ON THE
CONSTITUTIONAL QUESTION, HIS
VOTE SEEMS
AN IMPLANT FINAL CONVECTION.
RIGHT NOW IT DOES SEEM LIKE
THERE IS NO MORE THAN SEVEN
REPUBLICANS WHO ARE LOOKING
SERIOUSLY AT CONVICTION, EVEN
AFTER THAT DAY OF HUNTING VIDEO
EVIDENCE. THAT THESE JURORS WERE
WATCHING AT THE SCENE OF THE
CRIME.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE TO POINT OUT THAT
LINDSEY GRAHAM, THERE IS NO
ANTICIPATION THAT HE WOULD MOVE
AWAY FROM SUPPORTING PRESIDENT
TRUMP AT THIS POINT. BUT HE'S
ACTUALLY GOING THE OPPOSITE WAY
OF WHAT YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT.
IS DOUBLING DOWN AND WAS ON
TELEVISION LAST NIGHT AND
TWEETING AND SAYING THAT HE
THINKS MORE REPUBLICANS ARE
MOVING TOWARD NOT GUILTY BECAUSE
HE CALLED THE HOUSE MANAGERS
PRESENTATION OFFENSIVE AND
ABSURD.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS AN EFFORT BY PEOPLE
LIKE LINDSEY GRAHAM TO HOLD ON
TO THE SWING VOTES. BECAUSE THEY
DON'T WANT THIS TO BE THE MOST
BIPARTISAN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IN
AMERICAN HISTORY. AND YOU ARE
SEEING PRESSURE FROM
CONSERVATIVE TALK RADIO
. HUGH HEWITT THIS MORNING, RICK
SCOTT FROM FLORIDA WAS SAYING
THAT THEY ARE TRYING TO PULL
PEOPLE AWAY FROM VOTING FOR
CONVICTION BECAUSE IT MAKES THEM
LOOK BAD. IF SOME OF THE
REPUBLICAN COLLEAGUES ARE VOTING
TO CONVICT. SO YOU'RE DEFINITELY
SEEING SORT OF A WHIPPING EFFORT
UNDERWAY. ONE OF THE PEOPLE
THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE
WATCHING AFTER JANUARY 6, IS
MITCH McCONNELL, REPUBLICAN
LEADER WHO HAD SIGNALED OPENNESS
TO POTENTIALLY VOTING TO REMOVE
TRUMP FROM OFFICE AND HAS BACKED
AWAY FROM THAT. I HEARD FROM A
CLOSE TRUMP ALLY THAT THEY
EXPECT McCONNELL WILL ULTIMATELY
VOTE TO NOT CONVICT THE
PRESIDENT BECAUSE THAT IS WHERE
THE BASE OF THE PARTY IS AND
WHERE THE MEMBERS ARE. YOU ARE
SEEING
-- MIKE LEE, THE WEIRD EPISODE
AT THE END OF THE EVENING WHERE
THE SENATOR FROM UTAH STOOD UP
AND OBJECTED TO HIS NAME BEING
CITED
BY THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS. I
THINK THAT IS PART OF AN EFFORT
TO LASER THE PROCEDURAL
GROUNDWORK TO COMPLAIN THAT
THERE WASN'T -- THERE WEREN'T'S
DEPOSITION, THERE WEREN'T
HEARINGS, THEY ARE LOOKING FOR
EXCUSES TO BE ABLE TO GO VOTE TO
ACQUIT TRUMP BECAUSE THE
EVIDENCE THAT WAS LAID OUT
YESTERDAY WAS QUITE DAMNING.
&gt;&gt; EVEN AS SEMINARS ARE
PROCESSING WHAT THEY WITNESSED
YESTERDAY IN THE TRIAL, SOME ARE
AT THE WHITE HOUSE AND THAT IS
WHERE WE CAN FIND OUR COLLEAGUE
JOYCE.
TELL US, WHAT ARE SENATORS DOING
AT THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY? WHAT
IS ON THE AGENDA?
&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT BIDEN AND VICE
PRESIDENT HARRIS HAVE HAD A BUSY
SCHEDULE AS THE IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL CONTINUES. THIS MORNING
THEY WERE IN THE OVAL OFFICE
WITH A BIPARTISAN GROUP OF
SENATORS, SENATOR KAPPEL,
IMHOFF,
CARPER WERE IN THE ROOM WITH THE
PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT TO
DISCUSS INFRASTRUCTURE. WHAT THE
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION CALLS
CRITICAL NEED TO ADDRESS BOTH
MODERN AND SUSTAINABLE
INFRASTRUCTURE. BEFORE THAT
MEETING PRESIDENT BIDEN SAID HE
WAS ON THE PHONE WITH XI JINPING
WITH CHINA YESTERDAY AND HE SAID
CHINA IS ALREADY INVESTING
WILLIAMS OF DOLLARS INTO
ENVIRONMENTAL AND TRANSPORTATION
ALL MEASURES. AND HE SAYS IT IS
WHAT HE WANTS TO BE DOING IN HIS
ADMINISTRATION AND HIS
ADMINISTRATION HAS PRIORITY TO
BE DOING. AND TALKING ABOUT THE
COMPETITION WITH CHINA. HE WAS
ASKED ABOUT OF COURSE
IMPEACHMENT BY REPORTERS IN THAT
ROOM. TAKE A LISTEN TO WHAT HE
HAD TO SAY.
&gt;&gt; I TOLD YOU, I'M FOCUSED ON MY
JOB, TO DEAL WITH THE PROMISES I
MADE. WE ALL KNOW WE HAVE TO
MOVE ON. TODAY IT IS ABOUT JOBS
AND INFRASTRUCTURE. I, LIKE
OTHER AMERICANS WATCHED THE
NEWS. I DIDN'T WATCH ANY OF THE
HEARING BECAUSE I WAS GOING
STRAIGHT THROUGH LAST NIGHT TO A
LITTLE AFTER 9:00. I WATCHED
THIS MORNING. I THINK THE SENATE
HAS A VERY IMPORTANT JOB TO
COMPLETE. AND I THINK THAT MY
GUESS IS THAT SOME MINDS MAY
HAVE BEEN CHANGED BUT I DON'T
KNOW.
&gt;&gt; THE ADMINISTRATION, THE BIDEN
ADMINISTRATION'S
'S MAIN POINT ON IMPEACHMENT, AS
THEY HAVE BEEN ASKED THE
QUESTIONS OF WHETHER HE'S
WATCHING THE TRIAL, AND
RESPONDING TO THE DAY TODAY NEWS
THAT IS COMING OUT ON
IMPEACHMENT HAS BEEN TO LARGELY
STAY OUT OF THE STORY LINE. THEY
ARE SENDING THE MESSAGE THAT JOE
BIDEN IS FOCUSED ON HIS AGENDA,
MAINLY CORONAVIRUS. AND AS YOU
CAN SEE, INFRASTRUCTURE. THE
ADMINISTRATION DID SEND OUT A
COPY OF THE LETTER THAT BIDEN
HAD SENT OVER TO CONGRESS THIS
MORNING. THAT WAS ALL ABOUT THE
U.S./MEXICO BORDER WALL. JOE
BIDEN SAYS HE WILL BE
TERMINATING THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAD SET IN PLACE ON THAT
SOUTHERN BORDER WALL, CALLING IT
UNWARRANTED AND SAYING NO MORE
AMERICAN TAXPAYER DOLLARS SHOULD
BE SPENT ON THE BORDER WALL,
THERE. LIBBY.
&gt;&gt;
JOYCE KOH OUTSIDE THE WHITE
HOUSE. THANK YOU SO MUCH. LET'S
GO BACK TO ROUND AT THE CAPITOL.
IF THE SENATE  COULD SOMEHOW
MANAGE TO GET TO THAT 67 VOTE
THRESHOLD TO CONVICT
DONALD TRUMP, WHICH IS LOOKING
UNLIKELY BECAUSE OF WHERE
REPUBLICANS ARE STANDING AT THIS
POINT, AFTER THAT THEY COULD
THEN VOTE ON WHETHER TO BAR HIM
FROM HOLDING OFFICE IN THE
FUTURE. IT TURNS OUT THAT WOULD
REQUIRE A SIMPLE MAJORITY. IF IT
CAME DOWN TO PARTY LINES,
DEMOCRATS COULD PREVAIL WITH THE
HELP OF VICE PRESIDENT KAMALA
HARRIS. IF THAT IS THE DECISION
THE WAY HAS MADE, THAT SHE WOULD
CAST THAT TIE-BREAKING VOTE. SO
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE REALITY OF
DONALD TRUMP'S ROLE IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY RIGHT NOW AND
HOW REPUBLICANS ARE THINKING
ABOUT HIM AS A STANDARDBEARER OR
SOMEONE FROM THE PAST.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT, REPUBLICANS ARE
KIND OF TAKING THEIR TIME, STILL
TIME TO FIGURE OUT WHAT THIS
POST TRUMP ERA IS FOR THEM. DO
THEY STAY CLOSELY LOYAL TO HIM
IN ORDER TO WIN SEATS IN 2020 OR
DO THEY
START NOT ATTACHING ANY MORE TO
THAT LOYALTY AND HIS AGENDA AND
TRUMPISM, OVER ALL. AND THIS IS
WHY THIS IMPEACHMENT AND THE
TIMING OF IT IS SO IMPORTANT.
BECAUSE EVEN WITHOUT IT, SENATE
REPUBLICANS WOULD STILL BE
TASKED WITH FIGURING OUT THE
FUTURE OF THEIR PARTY. DROUGHT
THE LAST 4 YEARS, AND ALL OF THE
HEARINGS I HAVE COVERED, ON THE
HILL AND SEEING REPUBLICAN
STANDBY THE PRESIDENT, THIS TIME
WHERE HE IS NO LONGER IN THE
WHITE HOUSE COULD BE A TIME
WHERE SENATE REPUBLICANS
AND REPUBLICANS OVERALL COULD
ADJUST THEIR PARTY A LITTLE BIT.
AND FIGURE OUT THE NEW WAY
FORWARD. BUT RIGHT NOW THEY ARE
PUT IN A VERY WEIRD POSITION
WHERE THEY ARE FACED WITH
TRUMPISM, FACED WITH THESE
FOOTAGES FROM THE SCENES OF
JANUARY 6. THEY ARE FACED WITH
SEEING THE RHETORIC PLAY OVER
AND OVER AGAIN OF WHAT HE SAID
ABOUT MIKE PENCE. THAT LED UP TO
THE EVENTS, HERE.
SO THIS IS ADDING TO SOMETHING
THAT WAS ALREADY UNDERWAY, THAT
THE REPUBLICANS WERE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE THEY GO FROM
HERE. WITHOUT DONALD TRUMP. AND
WHAT THE CALCULATION THAT MIGHT
BE AND HOW IT MIGHT AFFECT THEM
AND THEIR ODDS IN 2022.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, THE WHITE HOUSE, AS WE
HEARD FROM JOYCE HAS NO APPETITE
TO GET INVOLVED. THEY WILL LET
THE TRAIN ROLL AHEAD AND TRY TO
SORT OF KEEP THE BIDEN/HARRIS
TEAM PROTECTED FROM THIS
POLITICALLY. BUT WHAT WE KNOW
ABOUT ANY INVOLVEMENT THAT
KAMALA HARRIS MIGHT TAKE IN A
TIEBREAKER SITUATION. THAT
CERTAINLY HAS BEEN FLOATED.
&gt;&gt; IT IS NOT A NORMAL LIKE
SENATE PROCEDURE. LIKE WE SAW
LAST NIGHT WHEN MIKE LEE STOOD
UP AND SENATORS CAN'T REALLY
OBJECT DURING AN IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL THAT THE WAY THEY CAN
DURING A NORMAL SESSION
OF THE SENATE. THAT SAID, IF
THERE IS A TIE SHE CAN BREAK THE
TIE. SHE IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE
SENATE AND PAT LEAHY AS
PRESIDENT PRO TEM, IS ACTING AS
THE PRESIDING OFFICER. BUT
HARRIS COULD CERTAINLY BE CALLED
UPON BY
-- HYPOTHETICALLY IF THERE IS A
VOTE TO HAVE WITNESSES, IT IS A
SIMPLE MAJORITY VOTE AND IF ALL
THE REPUBLICANS -- ALL THE
DEMOCRATS DECIDED TO HAVE
WITNESSES, HARRIS COULD END UP
NEEDING TO BREAK THE TIE. ON THE
OTHER HAND IT IS LIKELY YOU
WOULD HAVE A COUPLE OF
REPUBLICANS WHO ALSO WERE OPEN
TO HAVING WITNESSES, SOMEONE
LIKE MITT ROMNEY. SO SHE MAY NOT
BE CALLED UPON. THE WAREHOUSE IS
TRYING TO KEEP THEIR DISTANCE.
OBVIOUSLY THEY CAN'T PRETEND IT
IS NOT HAPPENING AT ALL. HE SAW
PRESIDENT BIDEN TRY TO THREAD
THE NEEDLE IN THE CLIP WE SAW A
MOMENT AGO.
&gt;&gt; LET'S BRING IN MATTEO GOLD,
INVESTIGATION EDITOR AT THE WILL
WASHINGTON POST. GOOD MORNING
AND THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
&gt;&gt; IS MY PLEASURE.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO HELLO UP ON
REPUBLICANS AND WHERE TRUMPETS
IN. OUR COLLEAGUE, IN HER
NEWSLETTER REPORTED THAT SENATOR
MARCO RUBIO HAS SAID THIS, TRUMP
REMAINS THE MOST POPULAR
REPUBLICAN IN THE COUNTRY.
WE ALSO HEARD SENATOR LISA
MURKOWSKI, REPUBLICAN, TALKING
TO REPORTERS LAST NIGHT AND SHE
SAID SHE DOESN'T SEE HOW AMERICA
WOULD HAVE THE APPETITE
, PARAPHRASING, TO RE-ELECT
TRUMP AFTER WHAT THEY HAVE SEEN
OF THIS JANUARY 6 ATTACK AND THE
EVIDENCE THAT HAS COME OUT THIS
WEEK. SO WHAT IS THE ROLE AND
RESPONSIBILITY OF REPUBLICANS,
VERSUS THE AMERICAN ELECTORATE
AT THIS MOMENT IN FIGURING OUT
THE FUTURE OF THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THE REALITY IS ALWAYS
THAT POLITICS IS GOING TO GOVERN
DECISIONS IN THIS AND THE
REALITY IS THAT THE BASE IS
STILL VERY FRIENDLY WITH THE
FORMER PRESIDENT. WE HAVE SEEN
THIS PLAY OUT IN HOUSE DAY AND
EVEN COUNTY PARTIES HAVE REACTED
OVER THE LAST SEVERAL WEEKS, AS
SOME STATE AND NATIONAL LEADERS
HAVE SPOKEN OUT AGAINST
TRANSACTIONS. REALLY THREATENING
RETRIBUTION FOR THOSE WHO
SUGGEST THEY MIGHT TRY TO HOLD
THE PRESIDENT ACCOUNTABLE FOR
HIS ACTIONS THAT LED TO THE
ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL.  THAT IS
JUST THE WORLD IN WHICH THESE
REPUBLICAN SENATORS ARE
CONSIDERING THIS DECISION RIGHT
NOW AND I THINK EVEN SEE PEOPLE
LIKE SENATOR ROB PORTMAN WHO IS
RETIRING, WHO IS JUST NOT
WILLING TO SAY THAT THIS IS A
PROCEEDING IN WHICH HE COULD
ACTUALLY MOVE FORWARD
NECESSARILY WITH CONVICTION.
&gt;&gt; SO WANT TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT
THE VICE PRESIDENT. AND WHAT WE
WITNESSED YESTERDAY.
IN TERMS OF THE POLITICS OF
THIS, THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
TRIED TO PRESENT A VERY CLEAR
CHOICE
FOR THE JURORS, THE SENATORS.
ARE YOU ON THE SIDE OF DONALD
TRUMP OR ARE ON THE SIDE OF MIKE
PENCE. THEY TALKED ABOUT MIKE
PENCE BEING A PATRIOT, DOING HIS
DUTY. AND ALSO THOUGH,
OBJECTIVELY SEPARATE FROM THE
POLITICS OF THIS, WERE ABLE TO
SHOW HOW TRULY DANGEROUS THE
SITUATION WAS FOR THE VICE
PRESIDENT. SO LET'S WATCH SOME
OF THAT NEW EVIDENCE YESTERDAY
AND IT STARTS OFF WITH
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER STACEY
PLASKETT.
&gt;&gt; VICE PRESIDENT PENCE WAS
STILL IN THE ROOM, NEAR THE
SENATE CHAMBER. IT WAS NOT UNTIL
2:26 THAT HE WAS EVACUATED TO A
SECURE LOCATION. THIS NEXT
SECURITY VIDEO SHOWS THAT
EVACUATION. HIS MOVEMENTS ARE
DEPICT DEAD BY THE ORANGE DOT IN
OUR MODEL. THE RED AND BLUE DOTS
REPRESENT THE LOCATION WHERE THE
MOB AND OFFICER GOODMAN WERE AND
ARE OFFICER GOODMAN LED THE MOB
AWAY FROM THE CHAMBER, JUST
MOMENTS AGO. YOU CAN SEE
QUICKLY MOVE DOWN THE STAIRS.
THE VICE PRESIDENT TURNS AROUND
BRIEFLY AS HE'S HEADED DOWN.
AS PENCE WAS BEING EVACUATED
WRITERS STARTED TO SPREAD
THROUGH OUT THE CAPITOL.  THOSE
INSIDE HELPED OTHER RIOTERS
BREAK IN THROUGH DOORS IN
SEVERAL LOCATIONS AROUND THIS
ENTIRE BUILDING. AND THE MOB WAS
LOOKING FOR VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
BECAUSE OF HIS PATRIOTISM.
BECAUSE THE VICE PRESIDENT HAD
REFUSED TO DO WHAT THE
PRESIDENT'S DEMAND AND OVERTURN
ELECTION RESULTS.
&gt;&gt; MATEA, WALK US THROUGH THE
DANGER THAT MIKE  PENCE WAS IN
AND WHAT WE REALLY LEARNED
YESTERDAY.
&gt;&gt; WE HAD ACTUALLY DONE A
RECONSTRUCTION OF THE PERIL
FACING THE VICE PRESIDENT
SHORTLY AFTER THE ATTACK. THE
VIDEO THAT WAS RELEASED
YESTERDAY, AS PART OF THE
PROCEEDINGS AUGMENTED OUR
UNDERSTANDING OF THE REALLY
IMMENSE DANGER FACING MIKE PENCE
IN THAT MOMENT. THE TIMELINE IS
AS FOLLOWS. AT 2:12 PM, WE FIRST
HAVE EVIDENCE ON VIDEO
OF THE RIOTERS CRASHING THROUGH
AND BREAKING A WINDOW. A MINUTE
LATER, THEY ARE INSIDE THE
CAPITOL.  AT THAT MOMENT, 2:13,
SECRET SERVICE QUICKLY HUSTLES
MIKE PENCE FROM THE HALL OF THE
SENATE CHAMBER AND HE REMAINS
INSIDE THAT ROOM WITH KEY
AND FAMILY MEMBERS GUARDED BY
SECRET SERVICE AT THE DOOR PEAK
. EVEN AS WRITERS ARE CHARGING
TOWARD THE SENATE CHAMBER. THEY
COME WITHIN WE THINK 100 FEET OR
LESS OF THE ROOM IN WHICH THE
VICE PRESIDENT IS HIDING. AND
THAT IS WHEN EUGENE GOODMAN, THE
CAPITOL POLICE OFFICER  VERY
KEENLY STEERS THEM AWAY FROM THE
SENATE CHAMBER AND AWAY FROM THE
ROOM WHERE THE VICE PRESIDENT IS
SHELTERING. WHAT WE LEARNED
YESTERDAY FROM THE VIDEO IS THE
EXACT TIME THAT THE VICE
PRESIDENT
EVACUATED THE ROOM. 2:26,
CROSSING THROUGH A RECEPTION
AREA AND DOWN A FLIGHT OF
STAIRS, COMING WITHIN PACES OF
WHERE THE RIOTERS HAD BEEN
MINUTES EARLIER. IT REALLY IS
REMARKABLE THAT THERE HADN'T
BEEN AN ENCOUNTER BETWEEN THE
INSURRECTIONIST AND THE VICE
PRESIDENT.
BY SOMEWAY, SURE LOT.
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TRIED TO
DRIVE DOWN THE DANGER BY
EMPHASIZING THE TIMELINE IN THE
NEW SECURITY FOOTAGE OF
HOW EXACTLY THE VICE PRESIDENT
WAS EVACUATED.
&gt;&gt; MATEA, ONE OF THE BIG
QUESTIONS LET'S  LEFT RESOLVED
WITH THIS. WAS DONALD TRUMP
AWARE IN REAL TIME OF THAT
DIRECT THREAT TO HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENT? SO DO WE GET ANY MORE
INSIGHT INTO THAT?
&gt;&gt; IT IS STILL AN OPEN QUESTION
AND I THINK ONE OF THE BIGGEST
QUESTIONS HANGING OVER THIS
TRIAL AND ARGUABLY WITHOUT
WITNESSES WE WON'T GET A
DEFINITIVE ANSWER TO THAT, BUT
WE DO HAVE A LITTLE MORE
INFORMATION. YESTERDAY SOME OF
THE EVIDENCE PRESENTED ABOUT A
PHONE CALL THE PRESIDENT MADE
THAT MIKE LEE, WHICH ERRONEOUSLY
WAS TRYING TO CALL SENATOR TOMMY
TUBERVILLE.
THAT WAS WHILE THE SENATORS WERE
SHELTERING INSIDE THE CHAMBER,
SHORTLY AFTER THE VICE PRESIDENT
HAD BEEN MOVED OFF THE FLOOR. WE
HANDED THE PHONE TO HIM AND
ACCORDING TO OUR REPORTING THE
PRESIDENT IS URGING
TOMMY TUBERVILLE TO CONTINUE TO
OBJECT TO THE COUNTING OF THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES. NOW
SOMEWHERE RIGHT AROUND THAT
TIME, THE PRESIDENT AT 2:24
ISSUES A TWEET
ACCUSING THE VICE PRESIDENT OF
BEING A COWARD. AND YESTERDAY
TUBERVILLE GAVE AN INTERVIEW IN
WHICH HE SAID  THE VICE
PRESIDENT HAD BEEN MOVED OFF THE
FLOOR. THERE IS A SUGGESTION
THAT AROUND THAT PERIOD OF TIME,
THE PRESIDENT DID UNDERSTAND
THAT
THE VICE PRESIDENT HAD BEEN
EVACUATED AND THERE WAS ENOUGH
DANGER TO ACTUALLY MOVE HIM OFF
THE CHAMBER. SO I DO THINK THERE
IS A QUESTION SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
THE LEVEL OF THE THREAT BUT THE
TIMING SUGGESTS HE WAS AWARE
THAT THERE WAS A LOT OF CHAOS
AND POTENTIAL PERIL HAPPENING AT
THAT MOMENT.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, LETS YOU BRING INTO
THE CONVERSATION. IS SIGNIFICANT
BECAUSE IT DOES GIVE A SENSE OF
THE POTENTIAL TIMELINE. LET'S
PICK THIS UP ARE A LITTLE MORE.
IF THE CONVERSATION IS THAT
TOMMY TUBERVILLE HAS SAID IN THE
TIMELINE IS ACCURATE, THAT MEANS
THE PRESIDENT WOULD HAVE KNOWN
HIS OWN VICE PRESIDENT WAS BEING
EVACUATED FOR SAFETY. AT THE
PRESIDENT DIDN'T DO ANYTHING
AS FAR AS WE KNOW TO TRY AND
SAVE THE VICE PRESIDENT'S LIFE
AND IN THAT MOMENT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, LIBBY. DAVID AXELROD,
CHIEF STRATEGIST FOR PRESIDENT
OBAMA SAID LAST NIGHT IT IS
INCONCEIVABLE THAT IF THE VICE
PRESIDENT WAS BEING EVACUATED
THAT THE SECRET SERVICE WOULDN'T
ALSO ELECT THE PRESIDENT. THE
SECRET SERVICE IS IN TOUCH WITH
THE OTHER DETAIL, THEY ARE VERY
MINDFUL OF THE WHOLE THREAT
MATRIX.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS A VERY GOOD REALITY
CHECK. IT DOESN'T DEPEND ON A
CALL TO A FRESHMAN PRESIDENT TO
LET THE PRESIDENT KNOW WHERE THE
VICE PRESIDENT IS.
&gt;&gt; AND IT STANDS TO REASON THAT
OF COURSE TRUMP KNEW THAT PENCE
WAS IN DANGER AND WAS IN  A
HIDEAWAY. AND IT IS IMPORTANT
FOR THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS, TO ESTABLISH JUMP OFF
A STATE OF MIND. THE ANALOGY
THAT JAMIE RASKIN USED, WHICH
WAS TRUMP IS NOT JUST YELLING
FIRE IN A CROWDED MOVIE THEATER
BUT HE HAS THE FIRE CHIEF, WHO
HAS SOMEWHAT SET THE MOVIE
THEATER ON FIRE AND THEN DOESN'T
SEND A FIRE TRUCK TO PUT THE
FIRE OUT. IT IS THAT LAST PART
OF WHY THIS IS SO SIGNIFICANT.
THAT TRUMP KNEW HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENT WAS THERE. TRUMP NEVER
CALLED TO CHECK ON PENCE. HE
DIDN'T EVEN TALK TO HIM THE NEXT
DAY. AND INSTEAD, WAS CONTINUING
TO TRY TO GET ALLEGEDLY, THESE
SENATORS TO DELAY CERTIFICATION
, TO INTERFERE WITH THE
CONSTITUTIONALLY MANDATED
PROCEEDING. THAT, I THINK IS
WHERE WE ARE GOING TO SEE THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TRY
TO UNPACK MORE DETAIL. THEY
DON'T HAVE THE BENEFIT OF HAVING
ALL THE INTERNAL WHITE HOUSE
RECORDS. THEY DON'T HAVE THE
WITNESSES THAT I THINK THEY
WOULD LOVE TO HAVE HAD FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE, WHO WERE WITH THE
PRESIDENT. OBVIOUSLY OUR
REPORTING FROM OUR COLLEAGUES,
HIS -- HE WAS DISENGAGE. THE
PRESIDENT WAS EAGER TO
HELP. HE WAS RELISHING AND
ENJOYING THE SHOW. AND THAT IS
VERY SIGNIFICANT IN TERMS OF
MAKING THE CASE THAT
ESSENTIALLY THERE WAS A
DERELICTION OF DUTY BY THE
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS YESTERDAY WERE TRYING
TO ILLUSTRATE THAT THE RIOTERS
WERE FOCUS ON WHAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS SAYING IN HIS TWEETS
WERE NOT SAYING. WHEN HE WAS
CRITICIZING MIKE PENCE, WHOSE
LIFE WAS IN DANGER OF THE
CAPITOL, WE SAW FOOTAGE  ON THAT
SAME TIMELINE OF THE RIOTERS
SHARING WITH EACH OTHER WHAT
TRUMP WAS TWEETING, CRITICIZING,
ANGRILY CRITICIZING THE VICE
PRESIDENT. SO LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THAT.
&gt;&gt; IT SHOWS THE RIOTERS AND
THOSE
ANTICIPATING IN THE INSURRECTION
WERE LISTENING TO TRUMP. THAT IS
WHAT THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS, THAT IS THE CORE OF
THEIR ARGUMENT. THEY DID LAY OUT
SOME VIDEO THAT SHOWS ONE OF THE
MEN WHO IS FAMILIAR PERSON AND
FACE IN ALL THE INSTRUCTION
VIDEOS
, HE HAD THE WARRANTS AND IS
CALLED THE QANON SHAMAN. WHERE
HE TOLD PEOPLE, TRUMP SAID GO
HOME. WE CAN GO HOME NOW, WE
WON. THAT VIDEO WAS PLAYED. THAT
AGAIN, IT BOLSTERS THE ARGUMENT
OF THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WHO
ARE TRYING TO CONNECT THE DOTS
AND SAYING THAT DONALD TRUMP
POPPED HIS EXACT WORDS LED TO
WHAT EXACTLY HAPPENED.
AND THAT IS IN CONNECTION THAT
THEY WILL CONTINUE TO MAKE
THROUGHOUT THE DAY. THEY ARE
ALSO GOING TO TALK TODAY ABOUT
SOME OF THE HARMS THAT CAME FROM
THE EVENT, THE AFTERMATH AND THE
FACT THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP DID
NOT SHOW ANY SORT OF REMORSE.
DID NOT SHOW ANY CONTRITION. WE
DID SEE THE VIDEO YESTERDAY THAT
HE PUT OUT AT 4:00 P.M. WHICH
WAS HOURS AFTER EVERYTHING SORT
OF TOOK PLACE ON THE SIXTH, HE
SAID WE LOVE YOU, GO HOME. THIS
WAS AN UNFAIR ELECTION. IT WAS
ALMOST
TALKING OUT OF BOTH SIDES OF HIS
MOUTH ON THAT ONE. THEY WANTED
TO SHOW THOSE CONTRADICTIONS,
THAT HE REALLY IS NOT SHOWING
ANY SORT OF REMORSE FOR WHAT
HE'S DONE. AND THE DESIGN OF
THAT, THE INTENT OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS IN DOING
THAT IS KIND OF ALSO PUTTING THE
DEFENSE IN A CORNER.
THEY ARE EXPECTED WHEN THEY COME
WITH THEIR OPENING ARGUMENTS TO
TALK ABOUT FREE SPEECH, THAT THE
PRESIDENT, FORMER PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS A VERY PASSIONATE
SPEAKER. THIS WAS A FIERY
SPEECH, MUCH LIKE HIS OTHER
RALLIES. AND HE WAS NOT PART OF
THE ACTUAL EVENTS THAT TOOK
PLACE. WHEN THEY CLOSEOUT TODAY,
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE
GOING TO TRY TO PRE-EMPTIVELY
SET UP THE TRUMP LAWYERS'
ARGUMENT AND TRY TO ATTACK IT
ALREADY BECAUSE THEY KNOW THAT
IS AT THE CORE OF WHAT THE
DEFENSE TEAM IS GOING TO BRING.
&gt;&gt; SO MATEA, THIS TRIAL THAT
DONALD TRUMP IS GOING THROUGH IN
THE SENATE, IS THIS POLITICAL
EXERCISE THAT CONGRESS IS GOING
THROUGH. BUT WHAT IS THE
EXPECTATION OR CONSIDERATION,
THE POSSIBILITY OF DONALD TRUMP
BEING CHARGED
IN A CRIMINAL COURT FOR THESE
SAME ACTIVITIES, THAT WE ARE
HEARING ABOUT THIS WEEK?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT IS THE QUESTION
HANGING OVER
THE ONGOING CHARGES BEING FILED
AGAINST THE RIOTERS AND WHAT IS
INTERESTING, WE ARE SEEING A LOT
OF THE DEFENSE ATTORNEYS FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE ALLEGED TO HAVE
PARTICIPATED IN THE VIOLENCE
ACTUALLY SIDING TRUMP OFFICE
WORDS AS A DEFENSE AND
SAYING THE PRESIDENT INSPIRED
THEM. SO THIS COULD COME UP IN
THE ACTUAL PROSECUTION OF THOSE
RIOTERS. AND NOW WE LEARNED
YESTERDAY, THERE ACTUALLY COULD
BE ANOTHER LEGAL PART THE PLACE
OUT, THE DISTRICT ATTORNEY IN
FULTON COUNTY, IN GEORGIA IS
LAUNCHING A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION INTO EFFORTS BY
THE PRESIDENT THAT PRECEDED THE
ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL. THAT WERE
VERY MUCH  ARGUABLY TIED TO IT.
HIS ATTEMPT TO INFLUENCE STATE
OFFICIALS IN GEORGIA TO SUBVERT
THE VOTE, THEIR. THERE COULD BE
A CRIMINAL
PROSECUTION RELATED TO THE
ACTIONS HE WAS INVOLVED IN, IN
GEORGIA. AND WE ALSO STARTED
HEARING TALK ABOUT MORE
OVERSIGHT BY CONGRESS AND A
DEEPER EXAMINATION OF EXACTLY
WHAT HAPPENED THAT LED TO THE
BREAKDOWN OF THE CAPITOL .
&gt;&gt; MATEA GOLD, THANK YOU SO
MUCH. WE APPRECIATE YOUR TIME IS
MONEY.
&gt;&gt;&gt; AT THE SENATE WERE TO FIND
DONALD TRUMP GUILTY, HE WOULD
BECOME THE FIRST PRESIDENT IN
U.S. HISTORY TO BE CONVICTED  IN
AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. BUT EVEN
THOUGH THAT WOULD BE A FIRST, WE
CAN LEARN FROM A LOOK BACK FROM
HISTORICAL CONTEXT WITH MY
COLLEAGUE LILLIAN CUNNINGHAM.
&gt;&gt; I'M LILLIAN CUNNINGHAM,
CREATOR AND HOST OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL PODCAST. MOST
PRESIDENTS LEAVE OFFICE AND FIND
OTHER PURSUITS TO OCCUPY THEIR
TIME. CHARITIES, OTHER CAUSES
THAT THEY DECIDE TO GET INVOLVED
IN. BUT EVERY ONCE IN A WHILE,
THERE IS A FORMER PRESIDENT WHO
JUST CAN'T LET GO OF THE I
IDEA OF RETURNING TO THE WHITE
HOUSE. THAT WAS THE CASE WITH
THEODORE ROOSEVELT. ROOSEVELT IN
1912 ATTEMPTED TO GET THE
REPUBLICAN NOMINATION FOR
PRESIDENT AGAIN. BY THAT POINT
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY HAD MOVED
ON TO SUPPORTING WILLIAM HOWARD
TAFT. ROOSEVELT WAS SO UPSET
THAT HE DIDN'T GET HIS PARTY'S
NOMINATION AND HE SPLIT OFF AND
HELPED FORM A THIRD PARTY, THE
BULL MOOSE PARTY. HE RAN IN THE
1912 ELECTION AS A THIRD-PARTY
CANDIDATE BUT HE DIDN'T WIN.
REPUBLICANS, WHO ARE NOW TORN
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND BULL
MOOSE PARTY, SPLIT THEIR VOTES
BETWEEN ROOSEVELT AND TAFT,
WHICH ALLOWED DEMOCRAT WOODROW
WILSON TO WIN THE WHITE HOUSE
THAT YEAR.
&gt;&gt;&gt; SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO SEE TO
BELIEVE. SOMETIMES WAITING IS
NOT AN OPTION. WHEN THE NEWS IS
BREAKING, WATCH
WITH THE NEWSROOM AND THE
WASHINGTON POST. WE EXPLAIN
WHAT'S HAPPENING AND WHY IT
MATTERS. THANK YOU FOR CHOOSING
TO WATCH THE HEADLINES AS THEY
ARE BEING WRITE WITH OUR
JOURNALISTS. YOU CAN SUBSCRIBE
WITH THIS SPECIAL OFFER AT
WASHINGTON POST.COM/WATCH.
SUBSCRIBING ALLOWS EVERYONE HERE
AT THE FRONT LINES TO THE
CONTROL ROOM KNOW THAT YOU CARE
ABOUT OUR CONTINUED EFFORTS TO
INFORM THE PUBLIC AND PROTECT
THE FIRST AMENDMENT AND FOSTER A
HEALTHY DEMOCRACY. WE COULD NOT
DO THIS WITHOUT YOU.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
A LIVE SHOT OF THE U.S. CAPITOL
WHERE IN A HALF HOUR THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WILL
CONTINUE TO MAKE THEIR CASE
AGAINST FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP.
WITH ME NOW, TO DISCUSS WHAT TO
EXPECT AND WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY
BEEN SEEING THIS WEEK, AMY
GARDNER, NATIONAL POLITICAL
REPORTER ALONG WITH RHONDA
COLEMAN, CAPITOL HILL REPORTER,
JAMES HOMAN. AMY, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US. YESTERDAY WE REALLY
HEARD ABOUT THE DANGER THAT MIKE
PENCE WAS UNDER. BUT ALSO,
SPEAKER PELOSI. AND WE ALSO SAW
FOOTAGE OF SOME OF THE SENATORS
AND JUST HOW CLOSE THEY CAME
. IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN NEWS TO
SOME OF THEM FRANKLY, HOW CLOSE
THEY CAME TO MEMBERS OF THE MOB.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS ABSOLUTELY NEWS TO
SOME OF THEM. THERE WAS AN
INCREDIBLE INTERVIEW WITH
SENATOR MITT ROMNEY, REPUBLICAN
FROM UTAH AFTER -- DURING A
RECESS RIGHT AFTER WE WATCHED
SURVEILLANCE VIDEO THAT HAD
NEVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE OF HIM
BEING URGED BACK INTO THE SENATE
CHAMBER BY OFFICER EUGENE
GOODMAN. THE ALREADY HELD,
HEROIC MEMBER OF THE CAPITOL
POLICE FORCE. IT TURNS OUT THAT
WAS SECONDS BEFORE
THAT OFFICER FENDED OFF AND
REDIRECTED THE MOB THAT HAD JUST
BROKEN INTO THE WINDOWS, ONE
FLOOR BELOW WHERE THAT ROMNEY
CAN BE SEEN IN THE VIDEO. AND
ROMNEY SAID CAN TO THE PRESS
CORPS, I HAD NO IDEA
IT WAS OFFICER GOODMAN. I HAD NO
IDEA HOW CLOSE I WAS TO THE MOB.
THAT WAS INCREDIBLE MOMENT FOR
EVERYBODY WHO WAS WATCHING.
&gt;&gt; WHY DON'T WE WATCH THAT AMY.
THIS WAS A PEACH MANAGER STACEY
PLASKETT PRESENTING.
&gt;&gt; IN THE SECURITY FOOTAGE YOU
CAN SEE OFFICER GOODMAN RUNNING
TO RESPOND TO THE INITIAL
BREECH. OFFICER GOODMAN PASSES
SENATOR MITT ROMNEY AND DIRECTS
HIM TO TURN AROUND IN ORDER TO
GET TO SAFETY.
&gt;&gt; SO AMY, YOU KNOW, THAT IS THE
EXPERIENCE OF MITT ROMNEY. WE
ALSO SAW THE EXPERIENCE OF
MAJORITY LEADER CHUCK SCHUMER.
BUT WE ALSO SAW WHAT STAFFERS
WENT THROUGH. IN PARTICULAR, THE
STAFFERS OF NANCY PELOSI. SO
LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE STRATEGY HERE OF THESE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, SHOWING
THE PERIL THAT NOT ONLY MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS FACED BUT STAFFERS
FACED, CAPITOL POLICE PHASED.
WHAT DO THEY WANT TO COMMUNICATE
TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC WHO ARE
WATCHING THIS TRIAL?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THEY DON'T WANT THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC OR MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE, WHO WILL RENDER A
VERDICT IN THIS TRIAL, TO FORGET
WHAT ACTUALLY HAPPENED. AND IN
FACT THEY ARE LETTING THE PUBLIC
SEE THAT IT WAS FAR WORSE THAN
EVEN WE KNEW THAT DAY. AS
HORRIFYING AS IT WAS TO THOSE OF
US WATCHING IT UNFOLD ON TV THAT
DAY OR FOR SOME OF OUR
COLLEAGUES
, LIVE IN PERSON IN THE HOUSE
AND SENATE CHAMBERS. IT WAS
WORSE EVEN THAN WHAT WE
REALIZED. THERE WAS VIDEO
YESTERDAY
, OR AUDIO OF A MEMBER OF THE
RIOTERS, A MEMBER OF THE MOB ON
THE HOUSE SIDE, SAYING IN AN
ALMOST LIKE SLASHER FILM, CREEPY
WAY, NANCY! NANCY, WHERE ARE
YOU? AND A MOB OF PEOPLE GOING
DOWN THE HALLWAY AND BANGING ON
DOORS. AND WE KNOW FROM OUR
REPORTING, FROM A FEW WEEKS AGO
THAT AT THAT VERY MOMENT,
SPEAKER PELOSI STAFF WAS HIDING
UNDER A TABLE WITHIN EARSHOT OF
THAT SCENE. AND I THINK THE
STRATEGY IS TO MAKE SURE THAT
PEOPLE DON'T FORGET. THEY KNOW
THAT THE HOUSE MANAGERS KNOW THE
DIRECTION THIS IS HADDAD. IT IS
HIGHLY IMPROBABLE THEY WILL
PERSUADE 17 REPUBLICAN SENATORS
TO IMPEACH. -- TO CONVICT. BUT
EVEN IF THEY GET A FEW PEOPLE TO
CHANGE THEIR MINDS, I THINK IT
SIGNAL SOMETHING FROM THE
HISTORY BOOKS AND I THINK THIS,
AS MATEA SAID A MOMENT AGO, SETS
THE TABLE FOR FURTHER, MORE
IN-DEPTH INVESTIGATIONS TO
COMMENT.  BOTH IN CONGRESS AND
IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS.
AROUND THE COUNTRY, REALLY.
&gt;&gt; AMY, THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS CONTINUE THEIR
ARGUMENTS TODAY
, THEIR PRESENTATION AND WE HAVE
AN INDICATION THEY WILL FOCUS
MORE ON DONALD TRANSACTIONS. WE
SAW MUCH OF THE MOB YESTERDAY
AND WE WILL HEAR MORE ABOUT
DONALD TRUMP. YOU HAVE BEEN
REPORTING FOR MONTHS ON TRUMP'S
DESIRE TO OVERTURN THE ELECTION
RESULTS AND NOT JUST A DESIRE
BUT THE ACTIONS HE TOOK TO TRY
TO THWART DEMOCRACY FROM
HAPPENING.
SO I WANT TO BE CLEAR FOR OUR
VIEWERS. HAVE YOU FOUND IN YOUR
REPORTING, EVIDENCE AT DONALD
TRUMP'S CLAIMS THAT THE 2020
ELECTION WAS IN ANY WAY A FRAUD?
&gt;&gt; I HAVE FOUND IN MY REPORTING
THAT THERE IS NO EVIDENCE OF
FRAUD AT A SUFFICIENT QUANTITY
TO HAVE CHANGED ANY OUTCOME IN
ANY STATE OR PRECINCT IN THAT
MANNER. IT IS INTERESTING.
SECRETARY OF STATE BRAD
RAFFENSPERGER OF GEORGIA GOT A
LITTLE RUNDOWN ON THAT FAMOUS
CALL WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP IN AN
EARLY JANUARY PUT OUT A PRESS
RELEASE THIS MORNING, ADVANCING
INVESTIGATIONS AND -- INTO
VARIOUS ALLEGATIONS OF FRAUD.
AND IT IS ONE PERSON WHO VOTED
AS A FELONY, AS A FELON
ALLEGEDLY. ONE PERSON WHO
ALLEGEDLY YOU KNOW PUT IN
A BELL APPLICATION LATER THAN
THEY WERE SUPPOSED TO. THIS IS
WHAT HAPPENS. FRAUD HAPPENS,
MISTAKES HAPPEN. AND THEY RARELY
HAPPEN AT A LEVEL THAT CAN
CHANGE THE OUTCOME. IF THERE IS
ONE ARGUMENT THAT
REPUBLICANS HAVE MADE THAT HAS
LEGITIMACY IN AND ALL THEIR
CLAIMS OF FRAUD, IT IS THAT IT
IS THE QUESTION OF WHETHER SAID
ELECTION OFFICIALS WERE WITHIN
THEIR RIGHTS TO UNILATERALLY
CHANGE
TO ACCOMMODATE THE PANDEMIC.
PENNSYLVANIA WAS A GROUND ZERO
FOR THAT DEBATE. THE SECRETARY
OF STATE IN THAT STATE DID A LOT
OF UNILATERAL DECISION-MAKING.
AND THERE CERTAINLY A VIGOROUS
DEBATE THAT CAN BE HAD ABOUT
WHETHER SHE WAS IN POWER TO DO
SO OR WHETHER SHE WAS DISTURBING
THE POWER OF THE LEGISLATURE. IT
AGAIN, EVEN IF YOU GOT RID OF
ALL THE VOTES THAT WERE ENABLED
BY THE RULE CHANGES THAT
SHE UNILATERALLY MADE, IT
WOULDN'T HAVE CHANGED THE
OUTCOME OF PENNSYLVANIA. JOE
BIDEN WOULD'VE WON PENNSYLVANIA.
THAT IS THE REALLY IMPORTANT
THING.
&gt;&gt; ROGER COLEMAN, ONE OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS IS A
DEMOCRAT FROM PENNSYLVANIA.
MEDDLING DEAN, CERTAINLY USEFUL
TO THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
CASE, AS THEY HAVE A
PENNSYLVANIAN TALKING ABOUT THE
HISTORY AND WHAT LED UP TO THE
ATTACK AS PART OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER TEAM. HOW
PUT INTO THEIR CASE IS THE
BUILDUP? IS THE GROUNDWORK THAT
TRUMP LAID FOR MONTHS, TRYING TO
DELEGITIMIZE THE ELECTION TO
THEIR CASE, NOT JUST FOCUSING
ONLY ON JANUARY 6.
&gt;&gt; I REALLY THINK THAT IS PART
OF REALLY THE KEY ARGUMENT COME
HERE. F HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ARE TASKED WITH SHOWING
THIS IS NOT AN ISOLATED
INCIDENT, IT WAS PART OF A
LONGER STRETCH OF BEHAVIOR AND
CONDUCT BY THE RESIDENT, THAT IS
THE KEY ARGUMENT. AND I BELIEVE
I SAID YESTERDAY IN OUR CLOSING
SHOW,
A NEW SECURITY FOOTAGE, THE
DETAILS THAT WE LEARNED
YESTERDAY, THAT WAS CERTAINLY
IMPORTANT. IT WAS A CRITICAL
MOMENT IN THE ARGUMENTS
YESTERDAY. BUT EVEN MORE SO, THE
EARLIER PART OF THE DAY WHEN THE
HOUSE MANAGERS WENT OVER ALL OF
THE TWEETS, ALL THE THINGS THAT
WERE SAID. THE ACTIVITIES THAT
WERE LEADING UP TO THE SIXTH.
THE TWEETS WHERE FORMER
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID THAT PLAN
FOR THE SIXTH. MORE DETAILS TO
COME. IN FACT THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS CALLED A A SAVE THE
DATE. HE WAS SENDING SAVE THE
DATE TO LET PEOPLE KNOW JANUARY
6 WITH HER LEFT HAND. AND IS ONE
OF THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER SAID,
HE RAN OUT OF NONVIOLENT OPTIONS
TO STOP ELECTION. SO I REALLY
THINK THAT IS SOMETHING WE
SHOULD NOT MISS. THEY ARE PART
OF THE ARGUMENT THAT THERE WAS
INTENT BY DONALD TRUMP, AND THEY
HAVE EVIDENCE THAT THEY FEEL
FROM HIS TWEETS AND SOME OF THE
THINGS HE SAID WAY BEFORE
JANUARY 6. THAT IS REALLY
CRITICAL PART OF THE ARGUMENT.
AND EVEN IF THEY DON'T GET TO
THAT
TWO THIRDS SUPERMAJORITY TO
CONVICT DONALD TRUMP, THEY AT
LEAST HAVE IN THE RECORD, THEY
HAVE PUT FORTH THE RECORD THAT
THIS WAS PART OF LONG-STANDING
BEHAVIOR WEEKS, IF NOT MONTHS
AHEAD OF THE 2020 ELECTION.
&gt;&gt; SO AMY, ONE OF THE THINGS I
WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT IS
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LEGAL TEAM. WE
HAVE NOT HEARD FROM THEM
YESTERDAY. WE DON'T ANTICIPATE
HEARING FROM THEM TODAY. BUT IT
WILL BE THERE. LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE LEGAL TEAM BECAUSE YOU HAVE
BEEN REPORTING ON A RELATIVELY
NEW MEMBER OF THE TEAM, WHO IN A
FASCINATING TURN OF EVENTS WAS
ACTUALLY PART OF A LAWSUIT LAST
YEAR AGAINST TRUMP FOR FRAUD
CLAIMS.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT. HE HAD A CLIENT
LAST YEAR WHO WAS A WOULD-BE
CANDIDATE FOR THE U.S. HOUSE. HE
WANTED
TO CHALLENGE, AS AN INDEPENDENT,
DWIGHT EVANS, WHO IS THE
DEMOCRAT FROM PHILADELPHIA. AND
IS NOT ABLE TO QUALIFY FOR THE
BALLOT WITH SIGNATURES. SO
MICHAEL VANDER WIEN, WHO IS
BRUCE CASTOR'S
PARTNER IN PHILADELPHIA,
REPRESENTED HIM IN THAT EFFORT
TO WEIGHT SIGNATURE REQUIREMENTS
AND HE ALSO SUED IN FEDERAL
COURT,
THE PRESIDENT, THE POSTMASTER
GENERAL LOUIS DEJOY AND THE U.S.
POSTAL SERVICE ARGUING THAT
THEIR OPERATIONAL CHANGES THAT
WERE IN THE HEADLINES LAST
SUMMER HAD THWARTED THE ABILITY
OF
AMERICAN VOTERS TO CAST THEIR
BALLOTS LAST YEAR, WHICH IS
AMAZING. THIS LANGUAGE IN THAT
LAWSUIT THAT IS JUST POLAR
OPPOSITE TO WHAT TRUMP'S LAWYERS
ARGUED. AGAINST IN THOSE
CIVIL PROCEDURES LAST YEAR. IT
IS FASCINATING. HE CAME UPON
THIS ROLE IN A SOMEWHAT
HAPPENSTANCE WAY, BRUCE CASTOR
JOINED HIS LAW FIRM IN DECEMBER
AND THEN IN JANUARY WAS TAPPED
TO JOIN TRUMP'S DEFENSE TEAM.
AND MR. CASTOR BROUGHT MR. VAN
DER VEEN ALONG.  HIS WEBPAGE FOR
HIS LAW FIRM IS FASCINATING. IT
IS VERY SWAGGERING, LIKE
A LOT OF PERSONAL INJURY LAW
PRACTICES CAN BE. HE ADVERTISES
ON A LOCAL A.M. TALK RADIO SHOW.
THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF YOUTUBE
VIDEOS LINKED TO -- FROM HIS
WEBPAGE. HE EVEN BRAGS ABOUT
THIS CASE INVOLVING THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION, ON HIS WEBPAGE
, OF HIS LAW FIRM, WHICH IS SORT
OF FASCINATING. AND NOW HERE HE
IS NEXT TO BRUCE CASTOR
IN THE SENATE CHAMBER EVERY DAY
THIS WEEK.
&gt;&gt; AMY, IN ONE RESPECT, THAT IS
WHAT LAWYERS DO. THEY TAKE
CASES, THEY FILE CASES. BUT IT
IS JUST -- IT JUST SHOWS YOU
THAT HOW QUICKLY THIS TEAM WAS
GATHERED. ESPECIALLY FOR A
POLITICAL TRIAL BECAUSE WE ALL
KNOW IT IS NOT LIKE A JURY TRIAL
WHERE THE JURY IS SEQUESTERED
AND ISN'T CONSUMING OTHER NEWS
AND INFORMATION. LIKE SENATORS
KNOW THAT ONE OF THE ATTORNEYS
WAS JUST ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THIS ARGUMENT, REALLY MOMENTS
AGO.
&gt;&gt; SURE, THAT DOES HAPPEN. AND
IN SOME CASES IT IS A BADGE OF
HONOR OR A BACKDOOR COMPLEMENT
TO BE HIRED BY YOUR FORMER
OPPONENT IN A CIVIL CASE. IT
MEANS THAT THEY SOMETIMES LIKED
THE JOB YOU DID FOR THE OTHER
SIDE. THERE CAN BE ETHICAL
CONSIDERATIONS IS THERE AN
ADVERSE INTEREST IN TWO CLIENTS
YOU'RE REPRESENTING. BUT IN THIS
CASE, THAT PREVIOUS LAWSUIT WAS
DISMISSED IN NOVEMBER. SO IT IS
NOT AN ETHICAL ISSUE ACCORDING
TO SCHOLARS I SPOKE TO FOR THAT
STORY. I THINK IT'S ALSO
WORTH SAYING, THESE ARE
SUCCESSFUL LAWYERS. BRUCE CASTOR
IS A WELL-KNOWN, SUCCESSFUL
FORMER PROSECUTOR FROM THE
SUBURBS OF PHILADELPHIA TO PUT
AWAY NUMEROUS MURDERERS AND WAS
ON THE EVENING NEWS DURING THE
EARLY 2000'S, LIKE ALL THE TIME.
HE BECAME SORT OF LOCALLY
WELL-KNOWN FOR THAT ROLL.
MICHAEL VAN DER VEEN IS ALSO A
VERY SUCCESSFUL PERSONAL INJURY
LAWYER WHO HAS HAD  -- DO THE
MATH, A TWO DIGIT SETTLEMENTS
AND JUDGMENTS ON BEHALF OF
CLIENTS OVER THE YEARS.
BUT THEY ARE THE THIRD OR FOURTH
STRING AND THEY DIDN'T HAVE A
LOT OF TIME TO PREPARE. AND I
THINK THE CONSENSUS IS THAT
SHOWED WITH MR. CASTOR'S OPENING
ARGUMENTS ON TUESDAY, THE
PRESIDENT, FORMER PRESIDENT IS
NOT HAPPY WITH HOW MUCH MR.
CASTOR DID, PORTING TO
REPORTING. IT IS INTERESTING TO
SEE HOW THINGS WILL GO FOR THEM
TOMORROW. AND HOW LONG THEY
TAKE. THEY HAVE 16 HOURS AND WE
ARE HEARING THEY MAY NOT TAKE
ALL OF THAT, OR EVEN HALF OF IT.
IT WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE
HOW IT UNFOLDS TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER
AMY GARDNER. THANK YOU SO MUCH.
LET'S GO TO POLITICAL VIDEO
REPORTER JOYCE KOH FROM OUTSIDE
THE WHITE HOUSE. YOU BEEN
TALKING ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS , WHAT IS THE LATEST
RESPONSE THAT WE'VE HEARD FROM
THOSE ATTORNEYS FOLLOWING THE
ARGUMENTS THAT THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
MADE YESTERDAY?
&gt;&gt; LIBBY, WE SAW ONE OF FORMER
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS,
DAVID SCHOEN ON  FOX NEWS LAST
NIGHT FOLLOWING THE WRAPPING UP
OF THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS PATH ARGUMENTS OF DAY
ONE. AND HE REALLY HAD THE SAME
TONE THAT WE SAW THROUGH THAT
LEGAL BRIEF THAT WAS FILED ON
MONDAY. HE ATTACKED HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS SAYING THAT
THEY WERE WANTING SCREEN TIME.
THAT REALLY CONTRASTS, THE TONE
CONTRASTS WITH WHAT WE SAW ON
THE FLOOR WITH THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS. THEY WERE
NOT TAKING JABS AT TRUMP. THEY
WERE NOT NAME-CALLING. THEY WANT
SENATORS TO THIS VERY METHODICAL
AND METICULOUS
CHRONOLOGY OF THE EVENTS THAT
LED TO JANUARY 6, AS WELL AS THE
EVENTS THAT HAPPENED AT THE
CAPITOL ON JANUARY 6, PRESENTING
A MODEL OF THE CAPITOL SHOWING
THE PATH OF THE INSURRECTIONIST
AS WELL AS  VIDEO FOOTAGE. A LOT
OF THAT VIDEO FOOTAGE YOU HAVE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT THAT MORNING
THAT WAS NOT PREVIOUSLY SEEN BY
THE PUBLIC. OR SENATORS UNTIL
THIS
ARGUMENT YESTERDAY ON THE FLOOR
OF THE SENATE. DAVID SCHOEN ON
FOX NEWS ALSO TALKING ABOUT
THOSE VIDEOS, ATTACKING HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS FOR SHOWING
THEM. AND REALLY GOING AFTER
THAT, DESPITE FIVE LIVES BEING
LOST. THE POINT OF TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS, WAS TO TAKE ISSUE
WITH
WERE SHOWN AND OF COURSE THAT
VIOLENCE THAT WE HAS
SOUGHT WAS AT THE CENTER OF THIS
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF DONALD
TRUMP. TAKE A LISTEN TO A BIT OF
WHAT DAVID SCHOEN HAD TO SAY
YESTERDAY.
&gt;&gt; SHOWING THAT TAPE OVER AND
OVER AGAIN, THE SAME SLIDES AND
SO ON, AND MANIPULATED BY THEM
DOES NOTHING FOR HEALING. IT IS
THE EXACT OPPOSITE. IT IS
CONTINUING TO OPEN WOUNDS FOR
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
AND IT IS SOMETHING PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAS CONDEMNED IN NO
UNCERTAIN TERMS. THE TERRIBLE
VIOLENCE THAT WENT ON THERE.
&gt;&gt; THE LAST TIME WE HEARD DAVID
SCHOEN AND IT COMES OTHER
ATTORNEY, BRUCE CASTOR ON THE
FLOOR OF THE SENATE, WAS BACK ON
TUESDAY WHEN THEY WERE ARGUING
OVER THE CONSTITUTIONALITY OF
THE CASE. I JUST WANTED TO RECAP
THAT A LITTLE BIT FOR THOSE WHO
DIDN'T SEE THAT DAY. THERE WAS A
LOT OF BACKLASH
AFTER DAYS ESPECIALLY BRUCE
CASTOR HAD GIVEN HIS ARGUMENTS
BECAUSE THERE WAS A LOT OF
RAMBLING. AND A LOT OF POINTS
THAT WERE REALLY CONNECTING BACK
TO THE CONSTITUTIONALITY POINT
THAT THEY WERE SUPPOSED TO BE
ARGUING. SO WE SAW ACTION FROM
PUMP -- TRUMP
REPORTEDLY FURIOUS OVER THAT AS
WELL AS LAWMAKERS ON REPUBLICAN
AND DEMOCRATIC SIDE SAYING IT
WAS NONEFFECTIVE ARGUMENT THAT
WAS PRESENTED TO SENATORS A DAY.
ONE THING WE WILL BE WATCHING
FOR TOMORROW, WHEN WE EXPECT TO
SEE TRUMP SLAYERS BACK ON THE
SENATE FLOOR SPEAKING, IS
WHETHER OR NOT THEY PROVIDE
SUBSTANTIAL ARGUMENTS IN DEFENSE
OF TRUMP OR WHETHER OR NOT IT
CONTINUES TO BE THIS ATTACK ON
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. AND YOU
CAN SEE RICK MITT ROMNEY ON YOUR
SCREEN BARELY INSIDE THE DOORS
AND GETTING SURROUNDED BY
REPORTERS. JAMES, THAT IS WHAT A
REPORTER GAGGLE LOOKS LIKE THESE
DAYS WITH
COVERED RESTRICTIONS. THAT IS A
LOT OF PEOPLE AT ONCE. USUALLY
THERE WOULD BE SO MANY MORE IF
IT WEREN'T FOR COVID AS WELL AS
THE HEALTH MEASURES AND ALSO
COURSE SECURITY MEASURES THAT
ARE
TAKING PLACE. JOURNALISTS ARE
THANKFULLY STILL ABLE TO ROAM
THE HALLS, TALK TO SENATORS, GET
THEM ON THE RECORD AND ON
BACKGROUND. THAT IS WHAT YOU SEE
RIGHT THERE. JAMES, PART OF THE
JOB OF THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
TODAY IS TO DO A PRE-REBUTTAL.
TO ANTICIPATE THE ARGUMENTS OF
TRUMP SLAYERS. WE ARE HEARING
RHONDA AND JOYCE SUGGEST SOME OF
THESE LINES LIKE FAMOUS SPEECH,
ETC. HOW TO IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
NEED TO THINK ABOUT AND PREPARE
THE JURY FOR WHAT THEY WILL HEAR
WHEN TRUMP SLAYERS FINALLY TAKE
THE FLOOR?
&gt;&gt; WE GOT A GOOD LITTLE TASTE OF
THAT FOX CLIP AND ON THE OPENING
DAY, THE PRESIDENT DEFENSE
LAWYERS CRITICIZE THE
PROSECUTION FOR PLAYING THE
VIDEO AND THEN THEY PLAYED A
VIDEO OF DEMOCRATS SAYING TRUMP
SHOULD BE IMPEACHED.
AND YOU SHOULD FIGHT, FIGHT,
FIGHT. I THINK THERE WILL BE A
LOT OF FALSE EQUIVALENCY AND IT
IS GOING TO BE INCUMBENT UPON
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, IN
THEIR PRE-REBUTTAL TODAY TO
ESSENTIALLY SAY, THAT DIDN'T
LEAD TO THIS KIND OF VIOLENCE.
THAT THIS IS DIFFERENT THAN
THAT. THIS ISN'T JUST LANE OLD
REGULAR SPEECH OR A FIERY
CAMPAIGN RALLY. THERE'S BEEN
YEARS AND YEARS OF LAYING THE
GROUNDWORK FOR WHAT HAPPENED
JANUARY 6.
TED CRUZ, WHOSE OUT THERE SAYING
IT DOESN'T MEET THE LEGAL
DEFINITION OF INCITEMENT, IN
2016 HE WAS SAYING DONALD TRUMP
IS INCITING A MOB. HE IS
INCITING WRITERS. HE IS CAUSING
VIOLENCE AT HIS RALLIES BY
RECKLESS AND IRRESPONSIBLE
COMMENTS.
CRUZ COMPARED TRUMP TO A MOB
BOSS WHEN HE AND ROGER STONE AND
OTHER TRUMP ALLIES WERE
HARASSING CRUZ
DELEGATES AT THE REPUBLICAN
CONVENTION IN CLEVELAND 4 YEARS
AGO. EVERYONE IN THIS ROOM, ALL
THE JURORS HAVE BEEN WATCHING
THIS PLAY OUT FOR YEARS. THEY
KNOW THAT TRUMP'S RHETORIC OFTEN
TIMES IS NOT A STANDARD
POLITICAL PIECE SPEECH AND IT'S
GOING TO BE KIND OF -- THEY ALL
KNOW THAT TO BE TRUE. BUT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE GOING
TO HAVE TO EXPLICITLY MAKE THAT
POINT. TO GET OUT FRONT OF WHAT
WE EXPECT TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT
WE ANTICIPATE TODAY. IN TERMS OF
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, TRYING
TO SHOW TRUMP STATE OF MIND AND
ACTIONS AND THE LACK OF REMORSE
THAT HE HAS DEMONSTRATED IN THE
AFTERMATH OF THE CAPITOL ATTACK.
IN ADDITION TO THAT, HIS
UNWILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT THE
ELECTION RESULTS, WHICH IS OF
COURSE ROLLED INTO THE REASON
WHY PEOPLE SAY THEY STORMED THE
CAPITOL.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE PROBABLY GOING TO
PICK UP WHERE THEY LEFT OFF LAST
NIGHT IN SHOWING THAT HE DID NOT
SHOW ANY REMORSE. THEY ARE ALSO
GOING TO TALK ABOUT THE HARM
DONE AFTER THE INSTRUCTION AND
HOW HE ACTED ON THOSE, TOO. I'M
NOT SURE WHAT IS GOING TO BE
PART OF THAT EXACT PART OF THE
ARGUMENT TODAY. BUT IT COULD
INVOLVE DISCUSSING THE OFFICER,
WHO WAS KILLED. IN FACT THREE
OFFICERS DIED
IN RELATION TO THE EVENTS OF
JANUARY 6. BUT ONE DIED FROM
INJURIES HERE ON THE HILL. AND
OF COURSE, THERE WERE TRUMP
SUPPORTERS WHO ALSO PASSED AWAY
BECAUSE OF THE INSURRECTION.
THEY ARE LIKELY GOING TO TALK
ABOUT SOME OF THE AFTERMATH AND
THE EFFECTS OF THE PRESIDENT'S
WORDS. THIS IS SOMETHING AGAIN
THAT IS GOING TO LAY THE
GROUNDWORK FOR THAT
PRE-BUTTAL OF WHAT HIS TEAM IS
GOING TO COME TALK ABOUT
TOMORROW. YOU MIGHT HEAR FROM
HIS TEAM, TOO, THAT HE DID NOT
DO ANYTHING DIFFERENT THAN OTHER
POLITICIANS. I AM HEARING THAT
THEY ARE CONSIDERING BRINGING UP
THAT SOME DEMOCRATS HAVE NOT
CONCEDED. ELECTIONS QUICKLY.
THAT IS SOMETHING I HEARD OTHER
REPUBLICANS SAY THAT STACEY
ABRAMS, FOR INSTANCE DID NOT
CONCEDE HER RACE, THE
GUBERNATORIAL RACE IN 2018. AND
JUST ACKNOWLEDGE THAT GOVERNOR
KEMP OF GEORGIA WON INSTEAD OF
ACTUALLY CONCEDING. SO THEY MAY
TRY TO USE THAT UP AGAINST THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
ARGUMENT THAT HE HAD
LONG-STANDING BEHAVIOR OF SAYING
THAT THE ELECTION WAS RIGGED. SO
THAT IS SORT OF THE PLAN FOR
TODAY. BUT I THINK WE ALL SHOULD
STAY TUNED BECAUSE I THINK THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE REALLY
GOING TO TRY TO HAVE A VERY
STRONG ARGUMENT TO AND ON TODAY.
I THINK OUT OF ALL
OF THE HOURS WE HAVE SPENT IN
THE LAST FEW DAYS, LOOKING AT
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS'
PREPARATION, YOU'RE SAYING THAT
THEY DID NOT GO INTO THIS IN ANY
SORT OF LIGHT WAY. THIS IS NOT
IMPEACHMENT LIGHT. THEY ARE
DOING ALL THE WORK THAT
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS USUALLY DO.
AND EVEN IT IS SAID
WE ALREADY KNOW THE OUTCOME THAT
IT IS GOING TO BE HARD TO GET
THE TWO THIRDS VOTE TO CONVICT
HIM, YOU MIGHT SUSPECT THEY
MIGHT BE TAKING THINGS, YOU
KNOW, A LITTLE LESS SERIOUSLY.
BUT THEY ARE NOT. THEY ARE VERY
PASSIONATE, THEY ARE INVOKING
THEIR OWN PERSONAL EXPERIENCES
IN THIS.
YOU SEE THAT A LOT IN THEIR
ARGUMENTS. SO I SUSPECT IT IS
GOING TO REMAIN PASSIONATE AND
THEY ARE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
BRING HOME THE FACT THAT ALL OF
THOSE IN THE ROOM WERE VICTIMS
OF JANUARY 6.
&gt;&gt; SEYMOUR SENATORS COMING INTO
THE BUILDING. IT LOOKS LIKE --
TAMMY BALDWIN OF WISCONSIN.
JAMES, RHONDA BROUGHT UP AN
IMPORTANT POINT OF THE
DEVASTATING REPERCUSSIONS OF
THIS ATTACK ON
OFFICER SICKNICK WHO DIED, HIS
FAMILY, AND THEN THESE TWO
POLICE OFFICERS WHO SUBSEQUENTLY
HAVE TAKEN THEIR OWN LIVES AFTER
THE ATTACK. WE DID GET A SENSE
YESTERDAY OF THE BRUTALITY IN
THAT FOOTAGE. BUT ONE OF THE
JOBS OF THESE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS IS TO SHOW THE LASTING
REPERCUSSIONS AND THE DAMAGE
DONE
BY THIS ATTACK.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS GOING TO BE A HUGE
PART OF TODAY. IT WILL BE --
OBVIOUSLY WE SAW THE IMMEDIATE
HARM. EVEN CONGRESSIONAL
STAFFERS NEEDING THERAPY AND
BEING TRAUMATIZED. THE EFFECT
KIND OF ON THE NATIONAL PSYCHE,
THE FEELING OF FRAGILITY, THE
LONG-TERM REPERCUSSIONS OF THIS.
THE WAY THAT THE WORLD WATCHED
WHAT HAPPENED AND RESPONDED TO
IT. BOTH OUR ALLIES AND
ADVERSARIES OF AMERICA, IT MADE
US LOOK WEAK. SO THAT IS ONE OF
THE REASONS YOU
THERE WAS TANGIBLE HARM FROM
WHAT HAPPENED.
THIS WASN'T JUST AN ISOLATED
INCIDENT. THAT THIS WASN'T JUST
200 PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
CHARGED. THIS KIND OF SHOOK
DEMOCRACY TO ITS CORE. AND IT IS
-- IT IS REMARKABLE
HOW CLOSE THE MOB CAME TO
STOPPING CERTIFICATION OF THE
RESULTS ON JANUARY 6. IT WASN'T
A SURE THING, THAT THE SENATE
AND HOUSE WOULD COME BACK INTO
SESSION LATE THAT NIGHT. IT
COULD'VE GOTTEN PUSHED OFF. I
THINK THE 75 DAYS BETWEEN THE
ELECTION AND THE INAUGURATION
WAS A STRESS TEST FOR DEMOCRACY.
ONE OF THE THINGS THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE TRYING
TO SHOW IS THAT DEMOCRACY WAS
MORE FRAGILE THAN WE REALIZED.
AND THAT IT CAME CLOSER TO
FALLING APART.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, AS WE LEFT YESTERDAY,
WE HEARD SENATOR MIKE LEE
OBJECTING, -- LIKE THE PROTOCOL.
BUT FUNDAMENTALLY SAYING, THE
EVIDENCE WAS A -- INTRODUCED
ABOUT THE PHONE CALL HE TOOK WAS
NOT FACTUAL.
HOW DOES THAT PLAY OUT TODAY TO
CLEAN THAT UP AND DEAL WITH IT?
AND AS WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
EARLIER, DOES IT ACTUALLY OFFER
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR DEMOCRATS TO
DIG MORE INTO THE DETAIL OF THE
TIMELINE OF WHAT DONALD TRUMP
WAS DOING, INSTEAD OF TRYING TO
STOP THE RIOT?
&gt;&gt; LIBBY, A LOT OF REPUBLICAN
SENATORS WERE MENTIONED BY NAME.
AND WERE FEATURED IN
SURVEILLANCE FOOTAGE. SO IT IS
INTERESTING, IF YOU OPEN THAT
DOOR THIS IS ONE OF THE CLASSIC
CONGRESSIONAL THINGS. NO ONE IS
REALLY SCOURING THROUGH THE
ACTUAL CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
MIKE LEE WAS DEMANDING THAT THE
REFERENCE TO HIM AND BASICALLY
THE TRANSCRIPT OF THE FORMAL
TRANSCRIPT OF THE TRIAL BE
STRICKEN, DELETED. IN DOING SO
HE BRINGS FAR MORE ATTENTION
TO THE UNDERLYING CLAIM WHICH
WAS BASED ON THE CNN REPORT. BUT
THERE WAS ALSO AN INTERVIEW THAT
MIKE LEE GAVE IN SALT LAKE CITY
WHERE HE BASICALLY SAID THE SAME
THING. THAT HE WAS THEN DENYING
LAST NIGHT.
I DO THINK HE OPENED THE DOOR TO
THAT. BUT ULTIMATELY HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS DON'T WANT
TO LOOK HOSTILE AND ANTAGONISTIC
TOWARD REPUBLICAN SENATORS. THEY
ARE NOT PRESENTING THEM AS
ACCOMPLICES. THEY ARE PUTTING
THIS ENTIRELY ON DONALD TRUMP.
SO I THINK YOU SAW WITH JAMIE
RASKIN LAST NIGHT SAYING OKAY,
WHAT MIKE LEE SAID ISN'T CENTRAL
TO OUR CASE AT ALL. SO WE ARE
FINE GETTING RID OF IT WITH THE
STIPULATION THAT THEY MIGHT COME
BACK TODAY AND TRY TO RELITIGATE
IT OR ARGUE IT SOMEHOW. IT WAS A
TACTICAL RETREAT IN SOME WAYS
BECAUSE ULTIMATELY IT DOESN'T
MATTER WHAT MIKE LEE SAID. WHAT
MATTERS IS WHAT TRUMP SAID.
AND DEMOCRATS, I THINK THIS
COULD END UP FORCING SOME OF THE
OTHER SENATORS TO COMMENT
PUBLICLY ON WHAT TRUMP DID OR
DIDN'T DO. BECAUSE WE KNOW FROM
THE IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH OF
JANUARY 6 THAT
TRUMP WAS MAKING TONS OF CALLS.
WE ALSO KNOW BY THE WAY FROM
REPORTING THAT TRUMP CONTINUES
TO MAKE CALLS. THIS ISN'T
IMPROPER BUT
TRUMP IS WORKING THE JURY. TRUMP
IS TALKING TO LINDSEY GRAHAM
YESTERDAY. TRUMP IS CALLING UP
THE SENATORS AND CLOSELY
FOLLOWING THE PROCEEDINGS. SO IF
YOU OPEN THE DOOR OF TRUMP
COMMUNICATIONS, I THINK YOU
WOULD DISCOVER THAT TRUMP IS FAR
MORE HANDS-ON AND INVOLVED WITH
THIS PROCESS AS IT IS PLAYING
OUT, EVEN
IN THE MONTH AFTER JANUARY 6,
THAT IS PUBLICLY KNOWN.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt;JAMES, THE PLAN TODAY IS TO
HEAR JAMES, THE THE IMPEACHMENT
PLAN MANAGERS TODAY AND IS
TOMORROW THE TRUMP IMPEACHMENT
LEGAL MANAGERS TEAM AND HAS
TOMORROW THEIR TRUMPS TURN.
LEGAL THIS TEAM COULD HAS WRAP
UP POSSIBLY BY THEIR SATURDAY?
TURN. COULD  WRAP UP
&gt;&gt; BY YEAH, SATURDAY?
&gt;&gt; IT YEAH, REALLY IT COULD. AND
IT IS ONE OF THOSE THINGS WHERE
DEMOCRATS COVERED MORE GROUND
THAN I EXPECTED REALLY TO COULD.
YESTERDAY.  AND ONE OF THOSE
THINGS WHERE DEMOCRATS COVERED
MORE GROUND THAN I EXPECTED
YESTERDAY WITH JUST UNDER EIGHT
HOURS. THEY REALLY DID COVER THE
WHOLE LINE UP TO
JANUARY 6th
AND JANUARY 6. IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE IF THEY USE
THE SAME AMOUNT OF TIME AS THEY
DID YESTERDAY. NOT SURE HOW YOU
END UP DOING THAT BASED ON THE
WAY THEY PARSED OUT THEIR CASE
YESTERDAY. COULD BE SOME
REPETITION. CERTAINLY, WE COULD
SEE NEW ADDITIONAL VIDEO WE
DIDN'T SEE END COULD HEAR MORE
ABOUT GEORGIA AND THE
PRESIDENT'S
INTERFERENCE THERE
OR THE PRESIDENT'S INTERFERENCE
IN PENNSYLVANIA AND MICHIGAN
WHERE HE WAS CALLING STATE
LEGISLATORS AND GETTING THEM TO
TRY TO OVERTURN THE RESULTS OF
THEIR ELECTION. I DON'T
ANTICIPATE USING ALL
EIGHT HOURS --
&gt;&gt; I HAVE TO CUT YOU OFF BECAUSE
CHAPLAIN JERRY BLACK IS
DELIVERING THE MORNING PRAYER.
&gt;&gt; GIVE OUR SENATE JURORS
DISCERNMENT THAT WILL RESCUE
NATION FROM RUIN. ILLUMINATE
THEIR MINDS WITH
YOUR TRUTH. AS YOU SPEAK THROUGH
THE WHISPERS OF CONSCIENCE.
REMIND THEM THAT THE SEEDS THEY
PLANT NOW WILL BRING A HARVEST
MADE THE CHOICES THEY MAKE BRING
BLESSINGS, HEALING,
PROSPERITY. TO
OUR LAND. WE PRAY IN YOUR
MERCIFUL NAME,
AMEN.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE JOIN ME FOR THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE.
&gt;&gt; I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG, TO  OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA.
AND TO THE NATION THAT IT
STANDS --
&gt;&gt; PLEASE BE SEATED. IF THERE
ARE NO OBJECTIONS,
JURORS WILLACY TO THE TRIAL
APPROVED TODAY AND ASKED THE
SERGEANT AT ARMS TO MAKE THE
PROCLAMATION.
&gt;&gt; HEAR YE HEAR YE
HEAR YE, ALL PERSONS ARE
COMMANDED TO KEEP SILENT ON PAIN
AND IMPRISONMENT WHILE THE
SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES IS
SITTING FOR THE TRIAL OF THE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT EXHIBITED
BY THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
AGAINST DONALD JOHN TRUMP,
FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE WILL BE IN ORDER.
AND THE MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
&gt;&gt; IT IS
MY UNDERSTANDING
THAT SCHEDULED TODAY WILL BE
SIMILAR TO YESTERDAY'S
PROCEEDINGS. WE WILL PLAN TO
TAKE A SHORT BREAK EVERY TWO OR
THREE HOURS AND ACCOMMODATE A 30
MINUTE RECESS FOR DINNER
ASSUMING IT IS NEEDED.
&gt;&gt; THEN PURSUANT TO THE
PROVISIONS OF
SENATE RESOLUTION 47, THE
MANAGERS FOR THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES HAVE EIGHT HOURS
REMAINING TO MAKE THE
PRESENTATION OF THE CASE. THE
SENATE WILL NOW
HERE YOU. AND THE PRESIDING
OFFICER RECOGNIZES
MR. MANAGER JAMIE RASKIN TO
CONTINUE THE CASE FOR THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, THANK YOU.
SENATOR, TO GET COLORADO WILL
SHOW HOW THE INSURRECTIONIST
STEM CELLS BELIEVED THEY WERE
FOLLOWING PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
MARCHING ORDERS.
&gt;&gt; MY FRIENDS AND COLLEAGUES,
YESTERDAY WAS AN EMOTIONALLY
WRENCHING DAY. AS I WATCHED THE
FOOTAGE OF THE VIOLENCE IN THE
CAPITOL BUILDING,  MY OWN
EXPERIENCE FLOODED BACK
TO ME. I WAS ONE OF THE UNLUCKY
MEMBERS WHO WAS STUCK IN THE
HOUSE GALLERY ALONG WITH
CONGRESSWOMAN DEAN. AS THE HOUSE
FLOOR WAS CLEARED BENEATH US OF
MEMBERS AND STAFF, WE COULD SEE
THE MOB POUNDING ON
THE DOOR TO THE HOUSE CHAMBER.
WE COULD SEE THE CAPITOL POLICE
OFFICERS INSIDE THE CHAMBER
PULLED THEIR GUNS AND POINT THEM
AT THE INTRUDERS. THEN WE HEARD
GUNSHOTS ON THE
OTHER SIDE AND WE FLUNG
OURSELVES DOWN ON THE FLOOR AND
REMOVED OUR MEMBER PINS. THEN WE
HEARD POUNDING ON THE VERY
FLIMSY GALLERY DOORS RIGHT ABOVE
US. FINALLY, AFTER THAT
SITUATION FOR SOME TIME, WE WERE
TOLD TO RUN OUT OF A DOOR AT THE
END OF THE GALLERY. AS WE RAN
THROUGH A LINE OF POLICE TOWARD
A STAIRCASE, THIS IS WHAT I SAW.
THE
S.W.A.T. TEAM POINTING AUTOMATIC
WEAPONS AT MORE RODDERS ON THE
FLOOR LOOKING AT THESE PEOPLE
MAKES YOU WONDER WHO SENT THEM
HERE? IN THE NEXT FEW MINUTES I
WANT TO
STEP BACK FROM THE HORRORS OF
THE ATTACK ITSELF AND LOOK AT
JANUARY 6 FROM A TOTALLY
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE. THE
PERSPECTIVE OF
THE INSURRECTIONIST'S
THEMSELVES. THEIR OWN STATEMENTS
BEFORE, DURING AND AFTER THE
ATTACK MAY CLEAR THE ATTACK WAS
DONE FOR DONALD TRUMP AT HIS
INSTRUCTIONS AND TO FULFILL HIS
WISHES. DONALD TRUMP HAD SENT
THEM THERE. THEY TRULY BELIEVED
THAT THE
WHOLE INTRUSION WAS AT THE
PRESIDENT'S ORDERS AND WE KNOW
THAT BECAUSE THEY SAID SO. MANY
OF THEM ACTUALLY POSED FOR
PICTURES, BRAGGING ABOUT IT ON
SOCIAL MEDIA, AND THEY TAGGED
MR. TRUMP IN TWEETS. FOLKS, THIS
WAS NOT A HIDDEN CRIME.
THE PRESIDENT TOLD THEM TO BE
THERE, AND SO THEY ACTUALLY
BELIEVED THEY WOULD FACE NO
PUNISHMENT.
THE DEFENSE ARGUED IN THEIR
BRIEFS AND ARGUED AGAIN HERE
ON TUESDAY THAT THE
INSURRECTIONISTS WERE ACTING ON
THEIR OWN, THAT THEY WERE NOT
INCITED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP OR
ACTING  AT HIS DIRECTION. THIS
IS IN THEIR
BRIEF, QUOTE, THEY DID SO OF
THEIR OWN ACCORD AND FOR THEIR
OWN REASONS AND ARE BEING
CRIMINALLY PROSECUTED. BUT THAT
IS JUST NOT THE CASE.  IT IS NOT
WHAT THE INSURRECTIONISTS
ACTUALLY SAID.
THEY SAID, THEY CAME HERE
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT INSTRUCTED
THEM TO DO SO. LEADING UP TO THE
ATTACK, THE INSURRECTIONISTS
SAID THEY WERE COMING TO D.C.
FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP. HE INVITED
THEM  WITH CLEAR INSTRUCTIONS
FOR A SPECIFIC TIME AND PLACE
AND WITH CLEAR ORDERS. STOP THE
FIGHT
-- TO FIGHT TO STOP THE
CERTIFICATION IN CONGRESS, BY
ANY MEANS NECESSARY. THE
CROWD HAD DONALD TRUMP'S SPEECH
ECHOED AND CHANTED HIS WORDS,
AND WHEN PEOPLE IN THE CROWD
FOLLOWED HIS DIRECTION AND
MARCHED TO THE CAPITOL, THEY
CHANTED  THE
SAME WORDS AS THEY BREACHED THIS
BUILDING. LET'S RETURN TO THE
SPEECH FOR A MOMENT. DURING THE
RALLY, PRESIDENT TRUMP LED THE
CROWD IN A STOP THE STEEL CHANT.
HERE IS WHAT THE CHANT SOUNDED
LIKE FROM THE CROWDS'S
PERSPECTIVE.
&gt;&gt; ALL OF YOU PEOPLE CAME UP
WITH, WE WILL STOP
THE STEEL.
&gt;&gt; STOP THUS STEEL! STOP THE
STEEL!
&gt;&gt;
SOON AFTER THE PRESIDENT BASKED
AS THE CROWD CHANTED FIGHT FOR
TRUMP, AND
WHEN HE
INCITED THE CROWD TO SHOW
STRENGTH, PEOPLE RESPONDED,
STORM THE CAPITOL, INVADE THE
CAPITOL, HERE ARE THOSE MOMENTS
FROM THE CROWD'S PERSPECTIVE
.
&gt;&gt; FIGHT FOR TRUMP! FIGHT FOR
TRUMP! FIGHT FOR TRUMP! FIGHT
FOR TRUMP!
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE TO SHOW STRENGTH!
&gt;&gt;
YEAH!
&gt;&gt; WE ALSO HAVE ANOTHER
PERSPECTIVE FROM
THIS MOMENT. ONLINE EXTREMIST
CHEDDAR. AT THE SAME TIME AS THE
PEOPLE IN THE CROWD SHOUTED,
TAKE THE CAPITOL
BUILDING
, AS PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID SHOW
STRENGTH, THE PERSON POST ON
PARLER SAYING, QUOTE, TIME TO
FIGHT, CIVIL WAR IS UPON US.
ANOTHER USER SAID, QUOTE, WE ARE
GOING TO HAVE A CIVIL WAR. GET
READY. AN ANALYSIS FOUND MEMBERS
OF
CIVIL WAR QUADRUPLED ON PARLER
IN THE HOUR AFTER DONALD TRUMP
SAID, SHOW STRENGTH.
WHEN THE INSURRECTIONISTS GOT TO
THE CAPITOL, THEY CONTINUED
THOSE RALLY
CRIES .  INSURRECTIONISTS
HOLDING CONFEDERATE FLAGS AND
BRANDISHING WEAPONS CHEERED  THE
PRESIDENT'S
VERY WORDS.
STOP THE STEEL! STOP THE STEEL!
STOP THE STEEL! STOP THE
STEEL!
&gt;&gt; YOU HEARD THEM CHANTING
STOPPED THE
STEAL ,  AND AS THEY CHANTED AT
THE RALLY, THE CROWD AT THE
CAPITOL  MADE CLEAR WHO THEY
WERE DOING THIS FOR. THEY ALSO
CHANTED, FIGHT
FOR TRUMP!
&gt;&gt; FIGHT
FOR TRUMP! FIGHT FOR TRUMP!
FIGHT FOR
TRUMP!
&gt;&gt; AND IT WASN'T JUST THEY WERE
DOING THIS FOR
MR. TRUMP, THEY WERE FOLLOWING
HIS INSTRUCTIONS. THEY SAID HE
HAD INVITED THEM, AND IN FACT,
AS WE HEARD, HE HAD INVITED
THEM. AS
ONE MAN EXPLAINED ON A
LIVESTREAM HE TAPED FROM INSIDE
THE CAPITOL, QUOTE, OUR
PRESIDENT WANTS US YEAR.
WE WAIT,
AND TAKE ORDERS, FROM OUR
PRESIDENT. FOOTAGE FROM INSIDE
THE CAPITOL SHOWS WHEN THE
INSURRECTIONISTS FIRST GOT IN
THE BUILDING AND CONFRONTED
POLICE,  THE MOB SCREAMED AT THE
OFFICERS THAT THEY WERE
LISTENING TO PRESIDENT TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE 1 MILLION OF US
OUT THERE!
&gt;&gt; THE INSURRECTIONISTS ARGUED
WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT THAT THEY
SHOULDN'T EVEN BE FIGHTING THEM
BECAUSE  THEY BELIEVED THAT THE
COMMANDER IN CHIEF WAS
ORDERING THIS. THIS WAS THE
PERSON'S UNDERSTANDING. WHEN
PRESIDENT-ELECT BIDEN WENT ON
TELEVISION THAT DAY TO DEMAND AN
END TO THE SEAS, ONE WOMAN ASKED
THIS.
&gt;&gt; DOES HE NOT REALIZE PRESIDENT
TRUMP
CALLED US TO SIEGE THE PLACE?
&gt;&gt; THE EXAMPLES OF THESE TYPES
OF COMMENTS. DON'T WORRY, I
WON'T PLAY ALL OF THEM.  BUT IT
WASN'T JUST THE WORDS OF THE
INSURRECTIONISTS THAT PROVED
THAT THEY DID THIS IN RESPONSE
TO ORDERS FROM THEIR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF. WE CAN SEE
THIS IN THE FACT THAT THEY WERE
NOT HIDING. ONE IN A LIVESTREAM
AT THE CAPITOL SAID, QUOTE, HE
WILL BE HAPPY , WE ARE FIGHTING
FOR
TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; DUDE! TRUMP WOULD BE
VERY UPSET!
&gt;&gt; JUST SAY WE LOVE HIM. WE LOVE
YOU, BRO. HE WILL
BE HAPPY. WHAT DO YOU MEAN? WE
ARE FIGHTING FOR TRUMP!
&gt;&gt; AND THIS WAS NOT AN
ISOLATED INSULIN. -- INCIDENT.
THE INDIVIDUALS IN THE SLIDE
POSTED PHOTOS OF THEMSELVES
COMMITTING THESE CRIMES. TRUMP
SUPPORTERS WHO HAD BROKEN INTO
THE CAPITOL  WERE
TAKING SELFIES, STREAMING LIVE
VIDEOS AND POSING. IN FACT, THEY
WANTED THE PRESIDENT
TO KNOW THIS IS ME, IN FACT THAT
YOU CAN SEE THE PERSON WROTE ON
HIS OWN POSTING, THIS IS ME! AND
IF THERE WERE ANY
REMAINING DOUBT, AFTER HOURS OF
PROMPTING, WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP
FINALLY TOLD THE
INSURRECTIONISTS TO GO HOME ,
ONLY THEN DID SOME OF THEM BEGIN
TO LISTEN. AS YOU
PREVIOUSLY SAW, AT 4:17 P.M.,
MR. TRUMP RELEASED A PRERECORDED
VIDEO SAYING TO THE MOB, GO
HOME. WE
LOVE YOU.  YOU ARE VERY SPECIAL.
SHORTLY AFTER HE TREATED THIS
VIDEO, A FEW OF THE
INSURRECTIONISTS WHO HAD SEEN IT
COULD
BE CLAIMING -- COULD BE HEARD
CLAIMING VICTORY AND HER TELLING
PEOPLE TO GO HOME BECAUSE OF
DONALD TRUMP'S MESSAGE AND
INSTRUCTIONS. YOU SAW EARLIER
THE INSURRECTIONISTS , JACOB
CHANSLEY WHO TOLD SOMEONE,
QUOTE, WE WON THE DAY. A LITTLE
BEFORE THAT VIDEO OF JACOB
CHANSLEY, HE SAID THE SAME THING
TO THE CROWD THROUGH A BULLHORN
AND INSTRUCTED THEM TO GO HOME
BECAUSE OF THE VIDEO THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD TWEETED.
LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt; WE WON THE DAY! EVERYONE JUST
GO HOME! EVERYONE GO
HOME!
&gt;&gt; EVEN AFTER THE ATTACK, THE
INSURRECTIONISTS MADE CLEAR TO
LAW ENFORCEMENT  THAT THEY WERE
JUST FOLLOWING PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ORDERS. THEY DIDN'T SHY AWAY
FROM THEIR CRIMES BECAUSE THEY
THOUGHT THEY WERE FOLLOWING
ORDERS FROM THE
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF, AND SO THEY
WOULD NOT BE PUNISHED. THEY
WERE WRONG. AFTER THE ATTACK,
THERE WERE DOZENS OF ARRESTS.
THESE WERE FEDERAL OFFENSES
INCLUDING ASSAULTING
THE POLICE. WHEN LAW ENFORCEMENT
INTERVIEWED THE PEOPLE WHO WERE
AT THE CAPITOL ON JANUARY 6th ,
THEY ONCE AGAIN SAID IT WAS
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT TOLD THEM
TO
BE THERE. ROBERT SANFORD WAS
SEEN IN THIS WIDELY
CIRCULATED VIDEO THROWING A FIRE
EXTINGUISHER THAT STRUCK A
CAPITOL POLICE OFFICER OUTSIDE
THE
BUILDING.
A WITNESS TOLD THE
FBI THAT SANFORD SAID HE
TRAVELED TO WASHINGTON, D.C. ON
A BUS WITH A GROUP OF PEOPLE.
THE GROUP HAD GONE TO THE WHITE
HOUSE AND LISTEN TO DONALD J.
TRUMP'S SPEECH AND THEN
HAD FOLLOWED THE PRESIDENT'S
INSTRUCTIONS AND GONE TO THE
CAPITOL. FOLKS, THE
INSURRECTIONISTS DIDN'T JUST
MAKE THIS UP.  AS A SANFORD'S
LAWYER EXPLAINED, YOU ARE BEING
TOLD YOU HAVE TO FIGHT LIKE
HELL .  DOES FIGHT LIKE HELL
MEAN YOU THROW THINGS AT PEOPLE?
MAYBE.  THE LAWYER ADDED THAT
HIS CLIENT, QUOTE, WOULDN'T HAVE
BEEN THERE IF IT WEREN'T FOR THE
PRESIDENT. NOW SANFORD WASN'T
THE EXCEPTION. HE WAS THE RULE.
IN THEIR STATEMENTS AFTER THE
ATTACK, INSURRECTIONISTS
ROUTINELY ECHOED WHAT THEY HAD
SAID BEFORE  AND DURING
THE ATTACK. THEY WERE THERE
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT TOLD THEM
TO BE. NOW LOOK, THE LAWYERS WHO
ARE SAYING THAT THEIR CLIENTS
WERE TOLD TO COMMIT THESE ACTS
BY MR. TRUMP, WELL, THEY KNOW
THAT PUTTING THE BLAME ON
THE PRESIDENT
DOESN'T EXONERATE THEIR CLIENTS.
THEY ARE JUST SAYING IT,
FRANKLY, BECAUSE THAT IS EXACTLY
WHAT HAPPENED. ANOTHER TRUMP
SUPPORTER WHO HAS BEEN FEDERALLY
CHARGED IS TEXAS REAL ESTATE
AGENT JENNIFER RYAN. MS. RYAN
HAS GIVEN MANY TV INTERVIEWS IN
WHICH SHE SAID SHE
WAS ONLY DOING WHAT THE
PRESIDENT ASKED HER AND OTHERS
TO DO. SHE ALSO RECORDED VIDEO
BEFORE
THE RALLY TALKING ABOUT THE
MOB'S PLANS FOR VIOLENCE AND
HERE IS WHAT SHE SAID.
&gt;&gt; PERSONALLY I DO NOT FEEL A
SENSE OF SHAME OR GUILT FOR MY
HEART FOR WHAT I WAS DOING. I
THOUGHT IT WAS FOLLOWING MY
PRESIDENT. I THOUGHT IT WAS
FOLLOWING BUT WE WERE CALLED TO
DO. HE ASKED US TO FLY MAC THERE
AND I WAS ASKING WHAT HE ASKED
US
TO DO. ULTIMATELY, YES, WE WERE
GOING IN SOLIDARITY WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP. PRESIDENT TRUMP
REQUESTED THAT
WE BE
IN D.C. ON THE SIXTH. SO THIS
WAS OUR WAY OF GOING AND
STOPPING THE STEAL.
&gt;&gt; IF IT COMES DOWN TO WAR,
GUESS WHAT, I WILL BE THERE. WE
WILL ALL BE THERE
.
&gt;&gt; YET ANOTHER TRUMP SUPPORTER
WHO WAS ARRESTED AFTER BREACHING
THE CAPITOL, DOUGLAS
SUITE  EXPLAINED IN A MEDIA
INTERVIEW WHY HE DID IT,
REFERRING TO DONALD TRUMP HE
SAID,, QUOTE, HE
SAID HEY, I NEED MY DIGITAL
SOLDIERS TO SHOW UP ON JANUARY
6th AND WE ALL DID. SOME OF
THESE INDIVIDUALS WHO JOINED IN
THE ATTACK ON OUR CAPITAL DID SO
AS PART OF OF VIOLENT RACIST
GROUP WHICH HAD BEEN OFFICIALLY
CONDEMNED BY OUR GOVERNMENT
DANIEL GOODWIN IS
A SELF NAMED MEMBER OF THE PROUD
BOYS IN ONE OF MANY. ON NOVEMBER
7th, HE TWEETED A PICTURE
SHOWING THE PROUD BOYS LOGO
SURROUNDED BY STAND BACK AND
STAND BY AND, QUOTE, AGAIN STAND
BACK AND STAND BY. AND AWAIT
ORDERS FROM OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF. LOOK CLOSELY
AT THE SLIDE. YOU ARE LOOKING AT
AN IMAGE OF GOODWIN'S
OWN TWEET. HE WAS SUCH A LOYAL
FOLLOWER OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT HE USED THE
PRESIDENT'S PHOTO AS HIS OWN
PROFILE PICTURE
ON TWITTER. NOW REMEMBER,
PRESIDENT TRUMP TOLD THEM TO
STAND BACK AND STAND BY AT THE
DEBATE. THEY TOOK IT AS A CALL
TO ARMS. AND WHEN HE CALLED THEM
TO ARMS, THEY
WERE ALL READY TO ACT. THEY WERE
WAITING FOR THEIR ORDERS WHICH
THEY GOT ON
JANUARY 6th.
AND GOODWIN FOLLOWED THOSE
ORDERS. HE STOOD READY AS OTHERS
BROKE INTO THE WINDOWS OF THE
CAPITOL AND CLIMBED INSIDE. HERE
HE IS  ON ANOTHER
OF THE INSURRECTIONIST'S
LIVESTREAM IN ONE OF THE
FIRST FALL HALLWAYS OF THE
BUILDING. WHEN IT BECAME CLEAR
THAT DONALD TRUMP IS NOT GOING
TO SAVE THESE FOLKS FROM
PROSECUTION, WHEN IT BECAME
CLEAR THAT THE
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF HAD GIVEN
FALSE COMMANDS THAT WENT AGAINST
THIS COUNTRY, SOME OF HIS
SUPPORTERS EXPRESSED REGRET AND
SAID THEY FELT DUPED. HERE IS
JACOB
CHANSLEY AGAIN, WHO IS ON A
VIDEO CLAIMING VICTORY AFTER THE
PRESIDENT TOLD THE RIOTERS TO GO
HOME. EARLIER IN
THE AFTERNOON
,  AS YOU RECALL, JACOB CHANSLEY
CARRIED A SPEAR AS HE BREACHED
THE CAPITOL, ENTERED THE SENATE
THROUGH THE GALLERY AND WENT
RIGHT HERE ON TO THE SENATE
FLOOR.  HE LEFT A THREATENING
NOTE FOR VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
RIGHT THERE ON THE SENATE DAIS
WHICH READ,, QUOTE, IT IS ONLY A
MATTER OF TIME. JUSTICE
IS COMING. ON JANUARY 7th, HE
SPOKE TO THE FBI AND SAID THAT
HE CAME AS PART OF A GROUP
EFFORT WITH OTHER PATRIOTS FROM
ARIZONA. AT THE REQUEST OF
THE PRESIDENT THAT ALL PATRIOTS
COME TO D.C. ON JANUARY
6th, 2021. ON
JANUARY 14th, CHANSLEY'S  LAWYER
GAVE AN INTERVIEW TO
CHRIS CUOMO IN WHICH HE SAID
THAT CHANSLEY WAS THERE, QUOTE,
AT THE INVITATION OF OUR
PRESIDENT WHO SAID HE WOULD WALK
DOWN PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE WITH
HIM.  IN FACT, HIS LAWYER
NOW SAYS THAT CHANSLEY FELT
DUPED BY THE PRESIDENT AND HE
REGRETS WHAT THE PRESIDENT
BROUGHT HIM TO DO.  THIS MAN WHO
RAN THROUGH OUR HOLES, WHO RAN
INTO THIS CHAMBER, WHO SAT RIGHT
THERE ON THE DAIS AND WHO WROTE
A NOTE FOR VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
THAT HE WAS COMING FOR HIM, HE
AND THOSE WITH HIM DECLARED THEY
WOULD REMOVE US FROM OFFICE IF
WE WENT AGAINST DONALD TRUMP.
NOW HE IS SAYING HE WOULD NOT
HAVE DONE ANY OF THAT IF MR.
TRUMP HAD TOLD HIM
NOT TO. CHANSLEY IS
NOT  ALONE IN HIS POSTARREST
CONFESSION THAT HE WAS FOLLOWING
THE DIRECTIONS OF DONALD TRUMP.
AS MORE AND MORE OF THESE PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN CHARGED, THE
CONFESSION AND REGRET
SIMPLY CASCADES.  MORE AND MORE
INSURRECTIONISTS ARE ADMITTING
THAT THEY CAME AT
TRUMP'S DIRECTION.
WHEN RILEY JUNE WILLIAMS KNOWN
FOR ALLEGEDLY HELPING STEAL A
LAPTOP FROM SPEAKER PELOSI'S
OFFICE APPEARED IN COURT ON
JANUARY 21st, HER LAWYER SAID TO
THE JUDGE, QUOTE, IT IS
REGRETTABLE THAT
MS. WILLIAMS TOOK THE
PRESIDENT'S BAIT AND WENT INSIDE
THE CAPITOL.  ANOTHER IN THE
CAPITAL RIOT ON JANUARY 6th
QUOTED ONLINE THAT THEY, QUOTE,
THE PRESIDENT TOLD US TO FIGHT
LIKE .  HE
ALSO POSTED THAT THE PRESIDENT,
QUOTE, SAID THAT OUR CASE WAS A
MATTER OF
NATIONAL SECURITY. SAMUEL FISHER
WAS CHARGED WITH DISORDERLY
CONDUCT AND ILLEGALLY BEING IN
THE CAPITOL ON JANUARY 6th .
THAT DAY BEFORE THE ATTACK ON
THIS BUILDING, HE WROTE ON HIS
WEBSITE, QUOTE, TRUMP JUST NEEDS
TO FIRE THE BAT SIGNAL AND,
QUOTE, THEN THE
PAIN COMES. THE LAWYER FOR
DOMINIK KAHUN ZOLA, A LEADER OF
THE PROUD BOYS WHO WAS THE FIRST
PERSON TO BREAK INSIDE THE
CAPITALS SAID THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP EFFECTIVELY TOLD HIS
CLIENT AND OTHERS, QUOTE, PEOPLE
OF THE COUNTRY COME ON DOWN AND
LET PEOPLE KNOW WHAT YOU
THINK, QUOTE, LOGICAL THINKING
WAS HE INVITED US DOWN AND HIS
LAWYER WENT ON THESE WERE PEOPLE
ACTING IN A WAY THEY HAVE NEVER
ACTED BEFORE. AND IT BEGS THE
QUESTION, WHO LIT THE FUSE?, END
QUOTE. ON JANUARY 6th, WE KNOW
WHO LIT THE FUSE.
DONALD TRUMP TOLD THESE
INSURRECTIONISTS TO COME TO THE
CAPITOL AND STOP THE STEAL.  AND
THEY DID COME TO THE CAPITAL AND
TRY TO STOP THE CERTIFICATION.
THEY CAME BECAUSE HE TOLD THEM
TO. AND THEY DID STOP OUR
PROCEEDINGS. BUT ONLY
TEMPORARILY. BECAUSE HE TOLD
THEM TO. HAVE YOU NOTICED
THROUGHOUT THIS PRESENTATION,
THE
UNCANNY SIMILARITY, OVER AND
OVER AND OVER AGAIN OF WHAT ALL
THESE PEOPLE ARE SAYING? THEY
SAID WHAT DONALD TRUMP SAID AND
THEY ECHOED
EACH OTHER. STAND BACK AND STAND
BY. STOP THE STEAL.  FIGHT LIKE
HELL.  TRUMP SENT US. WE ARE
LISTENING
TO TRUMP. THE RIOTS THAT THE DAY
LEFT AT LEAST SEVEN PEOPLE DEAD.
MORE THAN 150
PEOPLE INJURED. MEMBERS,
SENATORS IN OUR STAFFS, ALL
TRAUMATIZED IT TO
THIS DAY.  DAMAGE AND PAIN TO
OUR CAPITOL. DAMAGE AND PAIN TO
AMERICANS.  DAMAGE TO OUR POLICE
FORCE. AND DAMAGE TO OTHER
NATIONS WHO HAVE ALWAYS SEEN US
AS A BASTION
OF DEMOCRACY. ALL OF THESE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN ARRESTED
AND CHARGED IT, THEY ARE BEING
HELD ACCOUNTABLE FOR THEIR
ACTIONS. THEIR LEADER, THE MAN
WHO INCITED THEM. HE MUST BE
HELD ACCOUNTABLE AS WELL. BUT,
AS I SAID EARLIER,
YOU DON'T HAVE TO TAKE MY WORD
FOR IT THAT THE INSURRECTIONISTS
ACTED AT DONALD TRUMP'S
DIRECTION . THEY SAID SO. THEY
WERE INVITED HERE. THEY WERE
INVITED BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt; WE WERE INVITED HERE! WE WERE
INVITED! WE WERE
INVITED HERE!
WE WERE INVITED BY THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
UNITED
STATES!
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, REPRESENTATIVE
DEGETTE JUST SHOWED HOW THE
INSURRECTIONISTS  BELIEVED AND
UNDERSTOOD THEMSELVES TO
BE FOLLOWING PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
MARCHING ORDERS. SHE EXPLAINED
IN CHILLING DETAIL HOW THEY WERE
ACTING IN PERFECT ALIGNMENT WITH
HIS POLITICAL INSTRUCTIONS AND
HIS EXPLICIT STRATEGY TO RETAIN
POWER.
THEY DID WHAT HE TOLD THEM TO
DO. THIS PRO-TRUMP INSURRECTION
DID NOT SPRING INTO LIFE OUT OF
THIN AIR. WE SAW HOW TRUMP SPENT
MONTHS CULTIVATING AMERICA'S
MOST DANGEROUS EXTREMIST GROUPS.
WE SAW HOW HE RILED THEM UP WITH
CORROSIVE LIES AND VIOLENT
RHETORIC, SO MUCH SO THEY WERE
READY AND EAGER FOR THE MOST
DANGEROUS MISSION, INVALIDATING
THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE TO KEEP
DONALD TRUMP IN OFFICE. WE MUST
REMEMBER THIS WAS NOT THE FIRST
TIME THAT DONALD TRUMP HAD
INFLAMED AND INCITED
A MOB.
TRUMP KNEW HIS INCITEMENT WOULD
RESULT IN VIOLENCE NOT ONLY
BECAUSE OF THE THOUSANDS OF
VIOLENT MESSAGES THAT WERE
POSTED ALL OVER THE FORUMS AND
THE WIDESPREAD NEWS AND
PREPARATIONS FOR VIOLENCE AMONG
EXTREMIST GROUPS AND HIS
COMMUNICATIONS ON TWITTER WITH
THE INSURRECTIONISTS THEMSELVES
. HE KNEW IT ALSO BECAUSE HE HAD
SEEN MANY OF THE EXACT SAME
GROUPS HE WAS MOBILIZING
PARTICIPATE IN EXTREMIST
VIOLENCE BEFORE. MOREOVER, HE
HAD SEEN CLEARLY HOW HIS OWN
INCITEMENT TO VIOLENCE AND
PRAISE AFTER THE VIOLENCE TOOK
PLACE GALVANIZED, ENCOURAGED AND
ELECTRIFIED THESE
EXTREMIST FOLLOWERS. THESE
TACTICS WERE ROAD TESTED.
JANUARY 6th WAS A CULMINATION OF
THE PRESIDENT'S ACTIONS, NOT AN
ABERRATION FROM THEM. THE
INSURRECTION WAS THE MOST
VIOLENT AND DANGEROUS EPISODE
SO FAR IN DONALD TRUMP'S
CONTINUING PATTERN
AND PRACTICE OF INCITING
VIOLENCE. I EMPHASIZE
SO FAR.
EARLIER CONGRESSWOMAN DEGETTE
SHOWED SEVERAL EPISODES OF
TRUMPS INCITEMENT THAT TOOK
PLACE DURING THE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION. HIS ENCOURAGEMENT OF
VIOLENCE AGAINST OTHER PUBLIC
OFFICIALS  WHO HE THOUGHT HAD
CROSSED HIM LONG PREDATES THE
2020 CAMPAIGN.
THE INCITEMENT OF VIOLENCE IS
ALWAYS DANGEROUS BUT UNIQUELY
INTOLERABLE WHEN DONE BY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA. BUT THAT BECAME
THE NORM. ON PRESIDENT TRUMP
SWATCH WHITE SUPREMACIST AND
EXTREMIST GROUPS HAVE SPREAD
LIKE WILDFIRE ACROSS
THE LAND, HIS OWN DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY CALLED
HOMEGROWN TERRORISM THE NUMBER 1
THREAT FACING AMERICANS TODAY.
BUT NO MATTER HOW MANY PEOPLE
INSIDE AND OUTSIDE GOVERNMENT
BEGGED HIM
TO CONDEMN EXTREME ELEMENTS,
PROMOTING VIOLENCE AND INDEED
CIVIL WAR
IN AMERICA
, AND RACE WAR IN AMERICA, HE
JUST WOULDN'T DO IT. AND THAT IS
BECAUSE HE WANTED TO INCITE AND
PROVOKE THEIR VIOLENCE FOR HIS
OWN POLITICAL GAIN AND FOR HIS
OWN STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES. EVER
SINCE HE BECAME PRESIDENT, TRUMP
REVEALED WHAT HE THOUGHT OF
POLITICAL VIOLENCE
FOR HIS SIDE. HE PRAISED IT AND
ENCOURAGED IT. RIGHT NOW I'M
GOING TO PLAY FOR YOU JUST A FEW
CLIPS FROM OVER THE YEARS WHEN
THE PRESIDENT'S WORDS
SUCCESSFULLY INCITED HIS
SUPPORTERS INTO ASSAULTING HIS
OPPONENTS.
&gt;&gt;
USA! USA!
&gt;&gt; THE FIRST GROUP, I WAS NICE,
TAKE YOUR TIME. THE SECOND
GROUP, I WAS
PRETTY NICE. THE THIRD GROUP, I
WILL BE A LITTLE MORE VIOLENT.
AND THE FOURTH GROUP, I WILL SAY
GET THE HELL OUT OF
HERE!
&gt;&gt; GET HIM THE HELL BACK OUT OF
HERE  GET HIM OUT OF HERE. THROW
HIM OUT!
&gt;&gt; I GOT A LITTLE NOTICE IN CASE
YOU
SEE IT
, THE SECURITY GUYS, WE HAVE
WONDERFUL SECURITY GUYS WHO
SAID, MR. TRUMP, THERE MAY BE
SOMEONE WITH TOMATOES IN THE
AUDIENCE. SO IF YOU SEE SOMEBODY
GETTING READY TO THROW A TOMATO,
KNOCK THE CRAB OUT OF THEM,
WOULD YOU? SERIOUSLY. JUST NOT
THE HELL OUT OF THEM.  I PROMISE
I WILL PAY FOR THE LEGAL FEES I
PROMISE.
&gt;&gt; WELL, WE HAVE SEEN THESE
CLIPS AND MANY MORE LIKE THEM
BEFORE, BUT
THINK ABOUT
THE BRUTAL POWER AND
EFFECTIVENESS OF HIS WORDS. YOU
HEARD HIM. HE TOLD HIS
SUPPORTERS TO BE A LITTLE MORE
VIOLENT AND THEY RESPONDED TO
HIS COMMAND BY LITERALLY
DRAGGING A PROTESTER ACROSS THE
FLOOR AT ONE OF HIS
CAMPAIGN RALLIES.
HE CRIED, GET HIM THE HELL OUT
OF HERE, THROW HIM OUT. THE
SUPPORTERS PUNCHED AND KICKED
ANOTHER PROTESTER AS HE WAS
ESCORTED FROM THE HALL AND TOLD
SUPPORTERS TO KNOCK THE HELL OUT
OF PEOPLE  WHO OPPOSED HIM AND
PROMISED TO PAY TIME AFTER TIME
HE ENCOURAGE VIOLENCE AND
SUPPORTERS LISTENED AND GOT THE
MESSAGE AND WASN'T JUST TRUMPS
ENCOURAGEMENT
OF VIOLENCE THAT CONDITIONED HIS
SUPPORTERS TO PARTICIPATE IN
THIS INSURRECTION ON JANUARY
6th. IT WAS ALSO HIS EXPLICIT
SANCTIONING OF THE VIOLENCE
AFTER IT
TOOK PLACE. LET'S WATCH SOME
INCIDENTS
BEGINNING WITH THOSE WHO
ASSAULTED A BLACK
PROTESTER.
&gt;&gt;
WE HAVE HAD A COUPLE THAT WERE
REALLY VIOLENT IN THE PARTICULAR
ONE WHEN I SAID LIKE THAT WAS
A VERY
-- A GUY WHO WAS SWINGING AND
VERY LOUD AND STARTED SWINGING
AT THE AUDIENCE, AND YOU KNOW
WHAT, THE AUDIENCE SWUNG BACK. I
THOUGHT IT WAS VERY, VERY
APPROPRIATE. HE WAS SWINGING, HE
WAS HITTING PEOPLE IN THE
AUDIENCE HIT BACK. AND THAT'S
WHAT WE NEED A LITTLE BIT MORE
OF.
&gt;&gt;
YOU DID THE SAME THING!
&gt;&gt; AT THE
-- YOU JUST BROKE MY GLASSES.
&gt;&gt; THE LAST GUY DID THE SAME
THING!
&gt;&gt; YOU JUST BROKE MY GLASSES!
&gt;&gt; GREG IS SMART, NEVER WRESTLE
HIM. NEVER! ANY GUY THAT CAN DO
A BODY-SLAM IS
MY GUY.
&gt;&gt; YOU WILL NOT REPLACE US! YOU
WILL NOT
REPLACE US! JEWS WILL NOT
REPLACE US!  JEWS WILL NOT
REPLACE US!
&gt;&gt;
I'M NOT EVEN SAYING WE ARE
NONVIOLENT. WE DID NOT INITIATE
FORCE AGAINST ANYBODY. WE ARE
NOT NONVIOLENT. WE WILL KILL
THESE PEOPLE IF WE HAVE
TO.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THERE IS BLAME ON
BOTH SIDES. YOU LOOK AT BOTH
SIDES, I THINK THERE IS BLAME ON
BOTH SIDES. YOU ALSO HAD PEOPLE
THAT WERE VERY FINE PEOPLE, ON
BOTH SIDES.
&gt;&gt; JUST IN CASE YOU DIDN'T CATCH
ALL OF THAT,
THE PRESIDENT PRAISED THE
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE WHO
ASSAULTED A JOURNALIST AS MY
KIND OF GUY, HE SAID THERE WERE,
QUOTE, VERY FINE PEOPLE ON BOTH
SIDES WHEN THE NEO NAZIS ,
KLANSMAN AND PROUD BOYS INVADED
THE CITY, THE GREAT CITY OF
CHARLOTTESVILLE AND KILLED
HEATHER HEYER
, AND SAID AN ATTACK ON A BLACK
PROTESTER AT ONE OF HIS RALLIES
WAS VERY, VERY APPROPRIATE. DOES
THAT SOUND FAMILIAR? LISTEN TO
HOW PRESIDENT TRUMP RESPONDED
WHEN ASKED ABOUT HIS OWN CONDUCT
ON JANUARY
6th.
&gt;&gt;
WHAT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY?
&gt;&gt; IF YOU READ MY SPEECH AND
MANY PEOPLE HAVE DONE IT IN AND
HAS BEEN ANALYZED AND PEOPLE
THOUGHT WHAT I SAID WAS TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE.
&gt;&gt;
SO THERE THE PATTERN IS STARING
US IN THE FACE. VERY, VERY
APPROPRIATE AFTER A MAN WAS
ASSAULTED AT ONE OF HIS RALLIES.
TOTALLY APPROPRIATE WAS HOW HE
CHARACTERIZED HIS INCITEMENT OF
JANUARY
6th. MEANING THAT OF COURSE, IF
GIVEN THE CHANCE, HE WOULD
GLADLY DO IT AGAIN, BECAUSE WHY
WOULD HE NOT ENGAGE IN TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE CONDUCT LACKS AN
EXAMINATION OF THE PAST EIGHT
MONTHS MAKES IT CLEAR THAT WHEN
DONALD TRUMP TELLS THE CROWD AS
HE DID ON JANUARY 6,  FIGHT LIKE
HELL OR YOU WON'T HAVE A COUNTRY
ANYMORE, HE MEANT FOR THEM  TO
FIGHT LIKE
HELL.
ON JANUARY 6th THAT BECAME CLEAR
TO ALL OF AMERICA. LET'S
CONSIDER THE INVENTS, SENATORS,
THAT TOOK PLACE IN LAST YEAR IN
MICHIGAN WHERE PRESIDENT TRUMP
DEMONSTRATED HIS WILLINGNESS AND
ABILITY TO INCITE VIOLENCE
AGAINST GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WHO
HE THOUGHT WERE GETTING IN HIS
WAY. WHEN RESPONDING TO
EXTREMIST PLOTS IN MICHIGAN,
TRUMP SHOWED RENEWED THE POWER
THE MOB TO ADVANCE HIS POLITICAL
OBJECTIVES. BEGINNING IN MARCH,
TRUMP LEVELED ATTACKS ON
MICHIGAN GOVERNOR GRETCHEN
WHITMER FOR THE CORONAVIRUS
POLICIES INTERSTATE
. ON MARCH 17th, THE DAY AFTER
GOVERNOR WHITMER PUSHED THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO BETTER
SUPPORT THE STATES ON COVID-19,
TRUMP CRITICIZED HER HANDLING OF
THE
PANDEMIC TWEETING,
FAILING MICHIGAN GOVERNOR MUST
WORK HARDER AND BE MORE
PROACTIVE. WE ARE PUSHING HER TO
GET THE JOB DONE. I STAND WITH
MICHIGAN. MARCH 27th HE ADDED, I
LOVE MICHIGAN. ONE OF THE
REASONS WE ARE DOING SUCH A
GREAT JOB FOR THEM DURING THIS
HORRIBLE PANDEMIC, YET YOUR
GOVERNOR, GRETCHEN HALF WITMER
IS IN OVER HER HEAD, DOESN'T
HAVE A CLUE, LIKES BLAMING
EVERYONE FOR HER
OWN INEPTITUDE. HASHTAG MAGA. BY
APRIL HIS NAME-CALLING TURNED TO
CALLS FOR MASS MOBILIZATION OF
HIS SUPPORTERS. THIS WAS A SIGN
OF THINGS TO COME. ON APRIL
17th, 2020, EQUATOR, QUOTE,
LIBERATE MICHIGAN. NOT EVEN TWO
WEEKS LATER AND APRIL 30th HIS
SUPPORTERS MARCHED ON THE
MICHIGAN STATE CAPITAL IN
LANSING AND STORMED THE
BUILDING. TRUMPS MARCHING ORDERS
WERE FOLLOWED BY AGGRESSIVE
ACTION ON
THE GROUND.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE A WHITE! LET US IN!
LET US IN LET US IN LET
US IN
.
&gt;&gt; YOU BETRAYED
US! TRADER! LOCK HER UP! LOCK
HER UP! LOCK HER UP! LOCK
HER UP!
&gt;&gt; THE VIDEO SHOWS THE MILITARY
PROTESTER SHOWED UP TO TAKE
A VIOLENCE THAN AND CAME ARMED
AND TIGHTLY PACKED THEMSELVES IN
THE BUILDING FOR NO REGARD FOR
SOCIAL DISTANCING. THIS TRUMP
INSPIRED MOB MAY INDEED LOOK
FAMILIAR TO YOU. CONFEDERATE
BATTLE FLAGS, MAGA HATS,
WEAPONS, CAMOUFLAGE ARMY GEAR,
JUST LIKE THE INSURRECTIONISTS
WHO SHOWED UP AND INVADED  THIS
CHAMBER ON
JANUARY 6th.  THE SIEGE OF THE
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSE WAS A
STATE-LEVEL DRESS REHEARSAL  FOR
THE SIEGE OF THE  U.S. CAPITOL
THAT TRUMP INCITED ON JANUARY
6th . IT WAS A PREVIEW OF THE
COMING INSURRECTION. PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S RESPONSE TO THESE TWO
EVENTS WAS STRIKINGLY
SIMILAR. FOLLOWING THE ARMED
SIEGE IN LANSING , PRESIDENT
TRUMP REFUSED TO CONDEMN THE
ATTACKS ON
THE MICHIGAN CAPITOL OR DENOUNCE
THE VIOLENT LAWBREAKERS BUT
INSTEAD DID JUST THE OPPOSITE.
HE UPHELD THE RIGHTEOUSNESS OF
HIS  VIOLENT FOLLOWERS CAUSE AND
PUT PRESSURE ON THE VICTIM OF
THE ATTACK TO LISTEN TO
HIS SUPPORTERS.
THE DAY AFTER THE MOB ATTACK IN
LANSING, TRUMP TOLD GOVERNOR
WHITMER TO NEGOTIATE WITH
EXTREMIST TWEETING THAT THE
GOVERNOR SHOULD JUST, QUOTE,
GIVE A LITTLE TO THE VIOLENT MEN
WHO HAD STORMED THE
CAPITOL , THREATENING NOT ONLY
THE STABILITY OF THE MICHIGAN
GOVERNMENT, BUT HER OWN LIFE. AS
YOU CAN SEE, HE TWEETED, THE
GOVERNOR OF MICHIGAN SHOULD GIVE
A LITTLE AND PUT OUT THE FIRE.
THESE ARE VERY
GOOD PEOPLE, BUT THEY ARE ANGRY.
THEY WANT THEIR LIVES BACK AGAIN
SAFELY. SEE THEM! TALK TO THEM!
MAKE
A DEAL. THE PRESIDENT SAYS
HEAVILY ARMED EXTREMIST CARING
CONFEDERATE BATTLE FLAGS AND
PUSHING PAST POLICE
TO OVERTAKE THE MICHIGAN STATE
HOUSE CHAMBER ARE VERY GOOD
PEOPLE AND JUST NEGOTIATE WITH
THEM. IT IS CLEAR HE DOESN'T
THINK THEY ARE AT FAULT IN ANY
WAY
AT ALL. BUT APRIL 30th WASN'T
THE ONLY TIME TRUMP SUPPORTERS
STORMED THE MICHIGAN
CAPITOL . EMBOLDENED BY HIS
PRAISE AND HIS ENCOURAGEMENT AND
SUPPORT, THEY ESCALATED AGAIN.
GOVERNOR WHITMER REFUSED TO
CAPITULATE TO THE PRESIDENT'S
DEMAND TO NEGOTIATE WITH THEM IN
TWO WEEKS LATER ON MAY 14th
TRUMPS MOB AGAIN STORMED THE
STATE CAPITOL.  THIS TIME, AS
YOU CAN SEE HERE, ONE MAN
BROUGHT A DOLL WITH A NOOSE
AROUND THE NECK. FORESHADOWING
THE APPEARANCE OF THE LARGE
GALLOWS ERECTED OUTSIDE OF
THIS BUILDING DOWNSTAIRS FROM
HERE IN JANUARY 6th AS THE
CROWD CHANTED, AND I STILL CAN
HEAR THE WORDS RINGING IN MY
EAR, HANG MIKE PENCE! HANG MIKE
PENCE! HANG MIKE PENCE! OVER THE
COMING MONTHS EVEN AFTER THE
CROWD THREATENING
GOVERNOR WHITNER STORMED THE
CAPITOL HE ASSAILED THE
REPUBLIC. IN A RALLY IN MICHIGAN
ON SEPTEMBER 10th
CROWD WHIPPED UP THE CROWD
SAYING SHE DOESN'T HAVE A CLUE
ABOUT REOPENING HER OWN STATE
ECONOMY. THE CROWD CHEERED AND
THEN ON
OCTOBER 8th, THE PRECISE
CONSEQUENCES OF THE PRESIDENT'S
INCITEMENT TO VIOLENCE WERE
REVEALED TO THE WHOLE WORLD.
LOOK
AT THIS. 13 MEN WERE ARRESTED BY
THE FBI FOR PLOTTING TO STORM
THE MICHIGAN STATE CAPITAL
BUILDING, LAUNCH A CIVIL
WAR, KIDNAP GOVERNOR WHITMER,
TRANSFER HER TO WISCONSIN, AND
THEN TRY AND EXECUTOR. THIS WAS
AN
ASSASSINATION CONSPIRACY
,  KIDNAPPING AND CONSPIRACY.
LOOK AT THE LANGUAGE THEY USED.
IN THE CHARGING DOCUMENT, THE
FBI REPORTED ONE OF THE
CONSPIRATORS THAT HE NEEDED,
QUOTE, 200 MEN TO STORM THE
CAPITOL BUILDING A TAKE
POLITICAL HOSTAGES INCLUDING THE
GOVERNOR.  THE SUSPECT CALLED IT
A AND GRAB, MAN. GRAB THE F'
GOVERNOR. ONE MAN IS PLED GUILTY
TO THE CONSPIRACY AND THE PLOT
WAS WELL-ORGANIZED, JUST LIKE
THE ONE THAT WAS COMING ON
JANUARY 6th.
THE MEN IN MICHIGAN EVEN
CONSIDERED BUILDING MOLOTOV
COCKTAILS TO DISCERN POLICE
VEHICLES AND ATTEMPTED TO
CONSTRUCT THEIR OWN IED'S,
SOMETHING THAT ACTUALLY HAPPENED
HERE ON JANUARY 6th. POLICE
AUTHORITIES ARRESTED EXTREMIST
WITH WEAPONS AND MATERIALS TO
BUILD EXPLOSIVE DEVICES
INCLUDING ONE MAN FOUND WITH AN
ASSAULT RIFLE AND ENOUGH
MATERIALS TO MAKE 11
MOLOTOV COCKTAILS. ON SEPTEMBER
17th, 2020, ONE OF THE MICHIGAN
CONSPIRATORS POSTED, WHEN THE
TIME COMES, THERE WILL BE NO
NEED TO STRIKE FEAR
THROUGH PRESENCE. THE FEAR WILL
BE MANIFESTED
THROUGH BULLETS.
AND WHAT DID DONALD TRUMP DO AS
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
TO DEFEND ONE OF OUR NATION'S
GOVERNORS AGAINST THE PLOTTED
KIDNAPPING BY VIOLET
INSURRECTIONIST? THAT HE
PUBLICLY CONDEMN VIOLENT
DOMESTIC EXTREMIST WHO HOPED AND
PLANNED TO LAUNCH A CIVIL WAR?
NOT
AT ALL. HE FURTHER INFLAMED THEM
BY CONTINUING TO ATTACK THE
GOVERNOR WHO WAS THE OBJECT OF
THEIR HATRED IN THIS
KIDNAPPING CONSPIRACY. THE VERY
NIGHT THIS CONSPIRACY
BECAME PUBLIC, AND THAT GOVERNOR
WHITMER LEARNED THAT THERE WERE
13 MEN PLANNING TO KIDNAP AND
LIKELY KILL HER, TRUMP DID NOT
CONDEMN THE VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT
CRITICIZE THE EXTREMISTS AND
DIDN'T EVEN CHECK ON GOVERNOR
WHITMER SAFETY. HE CHOSE TO
VILIFY GOVERNOR WHITMER AGAIN
AND THEN AMAZINGLY TOOK CREDIT
FOR FOILING THE PLOT AGAINST
HER. DEMANDING
HER GRATITUDE
, AND THEN HE QUICKLY, OF
COURSE, CHANGE THE SUBJECT TO
ANTIFA. HE TWEETED, GOVERNOR
WHITMER HAS DONE A TERRIBLE JOB.
HE DEMANDED THAT SHE
THANKED HIM FOR THE LAW
ENFORCEMENT OPERATION THAT HAD
FOILED THE KIDNAPPING CONSPIRACY
THAT HAD BEEN ENCOURAGED BY HIS
RHETORIC. ON
OCTOBER 17th, A LITTLE OVER A
WEEK AFTER THESE PEOPLE WERE
ARRESTED
FOR PREPARING
TO KIDNAP GRETCHEN WHITMER,
TRUMP RILED UP A BOISTEROUS
CROWD IN MUSKEGON WITH MORE
SLASHING PERSONAL ATTACKS ON
GOVERNOR WHITMER, DRIVING THE
CROWD TO CHANT, LOCK HER UP!
LOCK HER UP! HE HAD NOW SEEN
THAT SOME OF HIS FOLLOWERS WERE
PREPARED TO ENGAGE IN CRIMINAL
VIOLENCE WITH ORCHESTRATED
ATTACKS, DEADLY WEAPONS, AND
WILLING BODIES TO STORM A STATE
CAPITOL BUILDING  AND TO ATTACK
HIS PERCEIVED LYRICAL ENEMIES.
AND SO IS THE CROWD CHANTED,
LOCK HER UP! HE PIVOTED TO HIS
NEXT GOAL. HE
TOLD THEM, THEY COULDN'T TRUST
THE GOVERNOR TO ADMINISTER FAIR
ELECTIONS IN MICHIGAN. HE USED A
CROWD THAT HE KNEW WOULD READILY
ENGAGE IN VIOLENCE TO PREPARE
HIS FOLLOWERS FOR
HIS NEXT AND OF COURSE HIS
PARAMOUNT POLITICAL OBJECTIVE,
CLAIMING THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN
AND INCITING
INSURRECTIONARY ACTION. AND HE
DID IT AGAIN ON
OCTOBER 27th DURING A
PRE-ELECTION RALLY SPEECH IN
LANSING, MICHIGAN. WHERE THE
CAPITOL HAVE BEEN STORMED AND
TRUMP OPENLY JOKED WITH THE
CROWD  ABOUT CRITICS SAYING HIS
WORDS HAD PROVOKED THE VIOLENT
PLOT AGAINST GOVERNOR WHITMER.
CHECK IT OUT. IT IS TELLING.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE GOT TO GET HER GOING.
I DON'T THINK SHE LIKES ME
TOO MUCH.
&gt;&gt; LOCK HER UP! LOCK HER UP!
LOCK HER UP! LOCK HER UP! LOCK
HER UP! LOCK HER UP! LOCK
HER UP!
&gt;&gt; SEE, I DON'T COMMENT ON THAT
BECAUSE EVERY TIME IF I MAKE
JUST A LITTLE NOD, THEY SAY, THE
PRESIDENT LED THEM ON. I DON'T
HAVE TO LEAD YOU ON. EVEN A
LITTLE NOD, THEY SAY THE
PRESIDENT SAID
-- YOUR GOVERNOR AT THE URGING
OF HER HUSBAND WHO ABUSED OUR
SYSTEM VERY BADLY, THE ONLY MAN
ALLOWED IN THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN, THE ONLY MAN ALLOWED
TO GO SAILING IS HER HUSBAND.
YOUR GOVERNOR, I DON'T THINK SHE
LIKES ME TOO MUCH. HEY! I AM THE
ONE, IT WAS OUR PEOPLE THAT
HELPED HER OUT WITH HER
PROBLEM AND
YOU SEE A PROBLEM. PEOPLE ARE
ENTITLED TO SAY MAYBE IT'S A
PROBLEM -- IT WAS OUR PEOPLE, MY
PEOPLE, OUR PEOPLE, THAT HELPED
HER OUT.
&gt;&gt; SO PRESIDENT TRUMP
OFFERED THEM A LITTLE WINKING
INSIDE JOKE ABOUT HIS CONSTANT
INCITEMENT OF THE MOB AND HOW
MUCH CAN ACTUALLY BE
COMMUNICATED BY HIM WITH JUST A
LITTLE NOD. JUST A LITTLE NOD.
HE PRESIDED
OVER ANOTHER POUNDING, RHYTHMIC
RENDITION OF HIS TRADEMARK
CHANT, LOCK HER UP! LOCK
HER UP! THEN REFERRING TO THE
FBI FOILING OF THE KIDNAPPING
CONSPIRACY WHICH WAS DEADLY
SERIOUS.
HE SAID HE HELPED HER OUT WITH A
PROBLEM. MAYBE IT WAS A PROBLEM
OR MAYBE IT WASN'T. WE HAVE TO
SEE. MAYBE A PROBLEM OR MAYBE IT
WASN'T. THE PRESIDENT OF UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA. HE COULD NOT
BRING HIMSELF TO PUBLICLY OPPOSE
A KIDNAPPING AND
POTENTIAL ASSASSINATION
CONSPIRACY PLOT AGAINST A
SITTING GOVERNOR OF ONE OF OUR
50 STATES? TRUMP KNEW EXACTLY
WHAT HE
WAS DOING IN INCITING THE
JANUARY 6th
MOB. EXACTLY. HE HAD JUST SEEN
HOW EASILY HIS WORDS AND ACTIONS
INSPIRE VIOLENCE IN MICHIGAN. HE
SENT A CLEAR MESSAGE TO HIS
SUPPORTERS. HE
ENCOURAGED PLANNING,  AND
CONSPIRACIES TO TAKE OVER
CAPITOL BUILDINGS AND THREATEN
PUBLIC OFFICIALS WHO REFUSE TO
BOW DOWN TO HIS POLITICAL WILL.
IS THERE ANY CHANCE DONALD TRUMP
WAS SURPRISED BY THE RESULTS OF
HIS
OWN INCITEMENT? LET'S DO WHAT
TOM PAINE TOLD US TO DO AND USE
OUR COMMON SENSE. THE SENSE WE
HAVE IN COMMON.
AS CITIZENS. IF WE DON'T DRAW
THE LINE YOUR, WHAT IS NEXT?
WHAT MAKES YOU THINK THE
NIGHTMARE WITH DONALD TRUMP AND
IS VIOLENT MOBS IS OVER? IF WE
LET HIM GET AWAY WITH IT AND
THEN IT COMES TO YOUR STATE
CAPITAL OR COMES BACK HERE
AGAIN, WHAT ARE WE GOING TO SAY?
THESE PRIOR ACTS OF INCITEMENT
CAST A HARSH LIGHT ON TRUMP'S
OBVIOUS INTENT. OBVIOUS INTENT!
HIS UNAVOIDABLE KNOWLEDGE OF THE
CONSEQUENCES OF HIS INCITEMENT.
THE UNAVOIDABLE KNOWLEDGE OF THE
CONSEQUENCES OF HIS INCITEMENT
AND THE CLEAR FORESEEABILITY OF
THE VIOLENT HARM THAT HE
UNLEASHED ON OUR PEOPLE. AND OUR
REPUBLIC. JANUARY 6th
WAS NOT
SOME UNEXPECTED RADICAL BREAK
FROM HIS NORMAL, LAW-ABIDING A
PEACEFUL DISPOSITION. THIS WAS
HIS STATE OF MIND. THIS WAS HIS
ESSENTIAL M.O. HE KNEW THAT
EGGED ON BY HIS TWEETS, HIS LIES
AND PROMISE OF A WILD TIME
IN WASHINGTON
,  TO GUARANTEE HIS GRIP ON
POWER, IS MOST EXTREME FOLLOWERS
WOULD SHOW UP BRIGHT AND EARLY,
READY TO ATTACK, READY TO ENGAGE
IN VIOLENCE, READY TO FIGHT LIKE
HELL  FOR THEIR
HERO. JUST
LIKE THEY ANSWERED HIS CALL IN
MICHIGAN. PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS
SAID OVER AND OVER HIS
SUPPORTERS ARE LOYAL AND IN HIS
OWN WORDS HIS SUPPORTERS ARE THE
MOST LOYAL WE SEEN IN OUR
COUNTRY'S HISTORY. AND HE KNOWS
HIS MOST HARD-CORE SUPPORTERS
ARE WILLING TO DIRECT VIOLENCE
AND ELECTED OFFICIALS. INDEED TO
ATTACK
AND LAY SIEGE TO WEIGH CAPITOL
BUILDING AND KNEW THEY WOULD BE
READY TO HEED HIS CALL  ON
JANUARY 6th TWO STOP THE SEAL BY
USING VIOLENCE TO BLOCK THE
PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF POWER IN
THE UNITED STATES. HE KNEW THEY
WERE COMING. HE BROUGHT THEM
HERE AND WELCOME THEM WITH OPEN
ARMS. WE
HEAR YOU, AND LOVE YOU FROM THE
OVAL OFFICE. MY DEAR COLLEAGUES,
IS THERE ANY POLITICAL LEADER IN
THIS ROOM WHO BELIEVES IF HE IS
EVER LOVED BY THE SENATE TO GET
BACK IN THE OVAL OFFICE, DONALD
TRUMP WOULD STOP INCITING
VIOLENCE? TO GET HIS WAY? WOULD
YOU BET THE LIVES OF MORE POLICE
OFFICERS ON THE? WOULD YOU BET
THE SAFETY OF YOUR FAMILY ON
THAT? WITH THE BET THE FUTURE OF
YOUR DEMOCRACY ON THE? PRESIDENT
TRUMP DECLARED HIS CONDUCT
TOTALLY APPROPRIATE. SO HE GETS
BACK INTO OFFICE AND IT HAPPENS
AGAIN, WE WILL HAVE NO ONE TO
BLAME
BUT OURSELVES.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL RETURN TO TELL YOU
ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S TOTAL
LACK OF REMORSE AFTER
THE INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt;
GOOD AFTERNOON. MY COLLEAGUES
WALKED YOU THROUGH PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S ACTIONS LEADING UP TO
JANUARY 6th AND THEN
THE HORRIFIC EVENTS ON JANUARY
6th. AND WE SAW BOTH DURING THE
ATTACK AS WELL AS AN DAYS AFTER
THE ATTACK THAT THIS WAS A
PRESIDENT WHO SHOWED NO REMORSE
AND TOOK NO ACCOUNTABILITY. IN
FACT, QUITE THE
OPPOSITE. AS REPRESENTATIVE
RASKIN SHOWED YOU PRESIDENT
TRUMP
CLAIMED AS THEY WERE QUOTE
TOTALLY APPROPRIATE. THE
ASSERTION THAT EVERYONE THOUGHT
DONALD TRUMP'S ACTIONS WERE
TOTALLY APPROPRIATE INCLUDING
PEOPLE IN THIS ROOM IS
OF COURSE, UNTRUE. IT IS ALSO
DANGEROUS. AND THAT
IS WHY, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND
U.S. SENATORS, FORMER AND
CURRENT ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIALS, STATE AND
LOCAL OFFICIALS, ALL
UNEQUIVOCALLY CONFIRM WHAT WE
WITNESSED WITH OUR OWN EYES,
THAT DONALD TRUMP'S CONDUCT WAS
WRONG, IT WAS DESTRUCTIVE,
DISHONORABLE AND UN-AMERICAN.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LACK OF
REMORSE AND REFUSAL TO TAKE
ACCOUNTABILITY DURING THE ATTACK
SHOWS HIS STATE OF MIND. IT
SHOWS THAT HE INTENDED THE
EVENTS OF
JANUARY 6th TWO HAPPEN. AND WHEN
IT DID, HE DELIGHTED IN IT.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LACK OF
REMORSE AND REFUSAL TO TAKE
ACCOUNTABILITY AFTER
THE ATTACK POSES ITS OWN UNIQUE
AND CONTINUING DANGER. IT SENDS
THE MESSAGE THAT IT
IS ACCEPTABLE TO INCITE A
VIOLENT INSURRECTION TO
OVERTHROW THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE
AND THAT THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES CAN DO THAT AND
GET AWAY WITH IT. THAT IS WHY WE
HAVE TO HOLD PRESIDENT TRUMP
ACCOUNTABLE. TO SEND A MESSAGE
THAT IS NEVER PATRIOTIC TO
INCITE A VIOLENT ATTACK AGAINST
OUR NATION'S CAPITOL.  AND THAT
FUTURE PRESIDENT'S WILL KNOW
THAT THEY CANNOT FOLLOW IN
DONALD TRUMP'S FOOTSTEPS AND GET
AWAY WITH IT. SO LET'S START
WITH THE DAY OF
THE ATTACK. ON INSURRECTION DAY,
JANUARY 6,
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID NOT ONCE
CONDEMN THE ATTACK. NOT
EVEN ONCE. EVEN WHEN HE FINALLY
ASKED THE VIOLENT EXTREMISTS TO
GO HOME, WHICH WAS THREE HOURS
AFTER THE ATTACK BEGAN, HE SENDS
THIS VIDEO, AND HE ENDS IT WITH,
YOU ARE VERY SPECIAL. WE
LOVE YOU. THAT WAS HIS MESSAGE
TO
PEOPLE WHO PERPETRATED THIS
VIOLENT, GRUESOME ATTACK. WE
LOVE YOU. AND THEN TWO OUR SEAT
LATER HE TWEETS REMEMBER THIS
DAY FOREVER. THIS IS NOT A MAN
WHO
SHOWS REMORSE. BUT IT'S WORSE
THAN THAT. AFTER THAT TWEET, IT
TOOK HIM ANOTHER FULL DAY TO
EVEN CONDEMN THE ATTACK ITSELF.
THE VERY
NEXT DAY,
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS EERILY
SILENT AND THEN AT 7:01 P.M., HE
RELEASES A PRERECORDED VIDEO AND
THERE PRESIDENT TRUMP FOR THE
FIRST TIME NEARLY 30 HOURS AFTER
THE ATTACK BEGAN, ACKNOWLEDGES
AND CONDEMNS THE VIOLENCE AND
MAYHEM THAT OCCURRED. HE SAID
THE DEMONSTRATORS DEFILED THE
SEAT OF AMERICAN DEMOCRACY. HE
SAID THAT THESE DEMONSTRATORS
DIDN'T REPRESENT THIS COUNTRY
AND THEY BROKE THE LAW, THEY
WOULD PAY. BUT EVEN IN THAT
VIDEO, HE SAYS MORE LIES.
HE SAYS IN THE VERY SAME VIDEO
THAT HE IMMEDIATELY DEPLOYED
NATIONAL GUARD. THAT AGAIN IS
NOT TRUE. THE NATIONAL GUARD WAS
NOT DEPLOYED UNTIL OVER TWO
HOURS AFTER THE ATTACK BEGAN AT
AROUND
3:00 P.M. BECAUSE OF THIS LATE
DEPLOYMENT, THE NATIONAL GUARD
DID NOT ARRIVE UNTIL AFTER 5:00
P.M. AND WHEN THE GUARD WAS
DEPLOYED, THE PENTAGON HAD
RELEASED A STATEMENT THAT SHOWED
THE LIST OF PEOPLE, AND YOU SAW
THAT LIST OF FOLKS THAT WERE
CONSULTED BEFORE DEPLOYING THE
NATIONAL GUARD. SEVERAL PEOPLE
WERE ON THE LIST INCLUDING THE
VICE PRESIDENT. PRESIDENT TRUMP
WAS NOT ON THAT LIST. AND YOU
KNOW, AS
A VETERAN, I FIND IT DEEPLY
DISHONORABLE THAT OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF DID NOT
PROTECT US AND THEN LATER TRIES
TO TAKE CREDIT FOR SOMETHING HE
FAILED TO DO. SHAMEFUL. ALSO ON
THAT VIDEO, YOU SHOULD KNOW WHAT
IT DID NOT SAY. ABSENT FROM THAT
ENTIRE VIDEO WAS ANY ACTUAL
ACCEPTANCE OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR
HIS ACTIONS. ABSENT FROM THAT
VIDEO WAS A CALL TO HIS MOST
FERVENT SUPPORTERS TO NEVER DO
THIS AGAIN. AND HERE WAS HIS
FINAL MESSAGE
IN THAT SO-CALLED CONDEMNATION
OF ATTACK VIDEO. HERE IS WHAT HE
ACTUALLY SAID.
&gt;&gt; AND TO ALL OF MY WONDERFUL
SUPPORTERS, I KNOW YOU ARE
DISAPPOINTED. BUT I ALSO WANT
YOU TO KNOW THAT OUR INCREDIBLE
JOURNEY IS ONLY
JUST BEGINNING.
&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT TRUMP NOT ONLY
FAILED TO SHOW REMORSE OR TAKE
ACCOUNTABILITY, HE MADE CLEAR HE
IS
JUST BEGINNING. FOUR DAYS HE DID
NOT ADDRESS THE NATION AFTER
THIS ATTACK. WE NEEDED OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF TO LEAD, TO
UNITE A GRIEVING COUNTRY. TO
COMFORT US. BUT WHAT DID
PRESIDENT TRUMP DO?
NOTHING. SILENCE. WE ARE ALL
AWARE THAT A VIOLENT MOB
MURDERED A POLICE OFFICER. IT
TOOK PRESIDENT TRUMP THREE DAYS
BEFORE HE LOWERED THE FLAG OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
THREE DAYS. AND PRESIDENT TRUMP,
WHO HAS COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF AT
THE TIME, DID
NOT ATTEND AND PAY RESPECTS TO
THE OFFICER WHO LAY IN STATE IN
THE VERY BUILDING THAT HE DIED
DEFENDING.
&gt;&gt; SOME PEOPLE HAVE ARGUED THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP MADE A MISTAKE.
AND HE GETS A BALL AGAIN. AND WE
KNOW PRESIDENT TRUMP DIDN'T MAKE
A MISTAKE. YOU SEE WHEN YOU OR I
MAKE A MISTAKE AND SOMETHING
VERY BAD HAPPENS, WE WOULD SHOW
REMORSE. WE WOULD SHOW
RESPONSIBILITY. PRESIDENT TRUMP
DIDN'T DO ANY OF THAT. WHY NOT?
BECAUSE HE INTENDED WHAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6th. AND HOW
DO WE KNOW THAT? HE
TOLD US.
ON JANUARY 12th, AS PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS BOARDING AIR FORCE ONE
TO GO TO TEXAS, AND YOU SAW THE
VIDEO BEFORE AND I WILL SHOW IT
AGAIN, HE WAS ASKED BY A
REPORTER, QUOTE, WHAT IS YOUR
ROLE IN WHAT HAPPENED AT THE
CAPITOL?  WHAT IS YOUR PERSONAL
RESPONSIBILITY? AND THIS WAS HIS
RESPONSE.
&gt;&gt; MY SPEECH AND MY WORDS AND MY
FINAL PARAGRAPH IN MY FINAL
SENTENCE AND EVERYBODY TO THE T
THOUGHT IT WAS TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE.
&gt;&gt; ON
JANUARY 12, PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
SEEN THE VIOLENT ATTACK ON THE
CAPITOL AND KNEW THE PEOPLE THAT
DIED. HIS MESSAGE  TO ALL OF US
WAS THAT HIS CONDUCT WAS TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE. I AM A FORMER
PROSECUTOR, AND WE ARE TRAINED
TO RECOGNIZE LACK OF REMORSE. IT
DOESN'T TAKE A PROSECUTOR TO
UNDERSTAND THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WAS NOT SHOWING REMORSE. HE WAS
SHOWING DEFIANCE. HE WAS TELLING
US THAT HE WOULD DO THIS AGAIN,
THAT HE COULD DO
THIS AGAIN, THAT HE AND FUTURE
PRESIDENT'S CAN RUN FOR A
NATIONAL
ELECTION, LOSE AN COLLECTION,
AND FLAME SUPPORTERS FOR MONTHS
AND THEN INCITE AN INSURRECTION
AND THAT WOULD BE TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE.
ONE WEEK AFTER THE ATTACK ON
JANUARY 13th,
PRESIDENT TRUMP IN RESPONSE TO
CONTINUING BIPARTISAN CRITICISM,
RELEASES ANOTHER VIDEO. HERE IS
PART OF WHAT HE SAID. I WILL BE
VERY CLEAR,
CLEAR THAT I UNEQUIVOCALLY
CONDEMNED I THE VIOLENCE
UNEQUIVOCALLYTHAT  WE CONDEMNED
SAW THE LAST VIOLENCE WEEK. WE
THERE SAW IS LAST NO WEEK, PLACE
THE IN VIOLENCE AND VANDALISM
OUR HAVE COUNTRYNO PLACE IN OUR
COUNTRY AND NO PLACE IN
OUR MOVEMENT.. PRESIDENT TRUMP,
OF COURSE, HAD TO MAKE THAT
STATEMENT. HE NEEDED TO
UNEQUIVOCALLY CONDEMN. HE ALSO
NEEDED TO MEAN THOSE WORDS. YOU
SAW DONALD TRUMP TWEET IN THESE
ATTACKS. THERE ARE SOMETIMES 100
TWEETS IN A DAY.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTS TO
CONVEY A MESSAGE. FORCEFULLY,
LOUDLY AND REPEATEDLY HE DOES
THAT. THIS VIDEO WAS NOT THAT.
WE KNOW THIS BECAUSE IN THIS
VIDEO, HE, AGAIN DOES NOT SHOW
REMORSE AND DOES NOT TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY.
THERE OF COURSE WAS NO VOTE OR
INSURRECTION. HE DOES NOT SAY IN
THE VIDEO, FOR EXAMPLE,
EVERYTHING I SAID IN THE MONTHS
PRIOR. HE DOES NOT SAY THE ONE
SENTENCE THAT MATTERS. HE DOES
NOT SAY THE ONE SENTENCE WHO
WOULD STOP THE POLITICAL
VIOLENCE THAT THE ELECTION WAS
NOT STOLEN.
HE STILL HAS NOT SAID
THAT SENTENCE. THAT IS WHY THE
NATIONAL GUARD IN FULL PARTY
ARMOR STILL PATROL OUTSIDE.
&gt;&gt; REPORTS FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
ALSO CONFIRM THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP BELIEVED HE WAS FORCED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE NEW
ADMINISTRATION.
&gt;&gt; WE KNOW HE DID NOT STAND
BECAUSE THOSE AROUND HIM
CONFIRMED IT
. BEHIND CLOSED DOORS, SOURCES
CONFIRM THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
REFUSED TO DIRECTLY ACKNOWLEDGE
HIS ELECTION LOSS TO JOE BIDEN.
HE REFUSED TO EVEN ATTEND THE
PEACEFUL TRANSITION OF POWER,
THE FIRST PRESIDENT IN MODERN
HISTORY. PRESIDENT TRUMP EVEN,
REPORTEDLY, WAS WATCHING THE
IMPEACHMENT AND FOCUSED HIS IRE
ON REPUBLICANS WHO FOLK VOTED
FOR HIS IMPEACHMENT.
PREDATES WITH QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHAT HE COULD DO TO EXACT
REVENGE. PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS
MADE CLEAR THAT IF HE IS NOT
HELD ACCOUNTABLE THAT HE WILL
NOT BE ACCOUNTABLE AND HE WILL
NOT STOP. NOW, PRESIDENT TRUMP
WOULD HAVE HIS BASE IN THE WORLD
BELIEVE HIS CONDUCT WAS TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE. IT IS IMPORTANT TO
IMPEACH THAT FALSEHOOD
. TO MAKE CLEAR TO HIS
SUPPORTERS AND TO EVERYONE
WATCHING THAT WHAT DONALD TRUMP
DID WAS NOT ACCEPTABLE. IN FACT,
QUITE THE OPPOSITE. PEOPLE IN
HIS OWN PARTY INCLUDING STATE
OFFICIALS AND FORMER OFFICIALS
AND CURRENT OFFICIALS AND
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS HAVE
UNAMBIGUOUSLY AND IN
PASSIONATELY SAID THAT WHAT
DONALD TRUMP DID WAS QUOTE,
DISGRACEFUL, SHAMEFUL
. THEY CALLED HIS BEHAVIOR
EXISTENTIAL AND WRONG.
THEY SAID HIS ACTIONS GAVE RISE
TO ONE OF THE DARKEST CHAPTERS
IN UNITED STATES HISTORY. LET'S
HEAR WITH SOME OF THESE
OFFICIALS HAD TO SAY. HERE IS
GOVERNOR SPENCER COX, CHARLIE
BAKER, MIKE DeWINE, LARRY HOGAN
AND PHIL SCOTT.
&gt;&gt; PEOPLE HAVE TO BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE AND YES, THAT
INCLUDES THE PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; REMEMBER, IT WAS A
CULMINATION OF MONTHS OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP REPEATING OVER
AND OVER AGAIN THAT THE AMERICAN
ELECTORAL SYSTEM IS A FRAUD.
&gt;&gt; AFTER HE
STOKES THE FLAMES FOR WEEKS
LEADING UP TO THE EVENTS OF
YESTERDAY
, HE REFUSED TO ADEQUATELY
PREPARE THE U.S. CAPITOL FOR THE
POSSIBILITY OF VIOLENCE AND LEFT
IT NEARLY DEFENSELESS. HIS
REMARKS DURING AND AFTER THE
TRAVESTY OF THE ATTACK ON THE
CAPITAL WERE DISGRACEFUL.
&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT TRUMP'S CONTINUED
REFUSAL TO ACCEPT THE ELECTION
RESULTS WITHOUT PRODUCING
CREDIBLE EVIDENCE
HAVE STARTED A FIRE THAT HAS
THREATENED TO BURN DOWN OUR
DEMOCRACY. THIS INCENDIARY
SPEECH, YESTERDAY, WHEN HE GAVE
IT PRECEDING THE MARCH THAT HE
GAVE THE PROTESTERS. IT SERVED
ONLY TO FAN THOSE FLAMES
.
&gt;&gt; I PROUDLY STOOD BY MY
FATHER'S CITED THE AGE OF 12 ON
THE FLOOR OF THE HOUSE CHAMBER,
AS WE BOTH TOOK THE OATH OF
OFFICE. AN OATH TO SUPPORT AND
DEFEND
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES. IT IS CLEAR TO ME THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS ABANDONED
THIS SACRED OATH.
&gt;&gt; SEE IN OUR CAPITAL, A SYMBOL
OF DEMOCRACY AROUND THE WORLD
STORMED BY AN ANGRY MOB WAS
HEARTBREAKING. LET ME BE CLEAR,
THESE ACTIONS WERE NOT PATRIOTIC
. THESE PEOPLE ARE NOT PATRIOTS.
THE FACT THAT THESE FLAMES OF
HATE AND INSURRECTION WERE LIT I
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES WILL BE REMEMBERED AS ONE
OF THE DARKEST CHAPTERS IN OUR
NATION 'S'S HISTORY.
&gt;&gt; ONE OF THE DARKEST CHAPTERS
IN OUR NATION'S HISTORY. FORMER
MEMBERS OF THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION, LONG-STANDING
REPUBLICANS, ALSO MADE CLEAR
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP INCITED
THIS INSURRECTION AND IT WENT
AGAINST OUR DEMOCRACY
. THE PRESENT'S FORMER SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE, JAMES MATTIS
DECLARED THAT TODAY'S WAS AN
ASSAULT ON OUR CAPITAL WASN'T
EFFORT TO SUBJUGATE AMERICAN
DEMOCRACY BY MOB RULE WAS FORMED
BY
PRESIDENT TRUMP. FORMER WHITE
HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF, JOHN
KELLY, SPOKE ON THIS AS WELL. I
WOULD LIKE TO PLAY AN AUDIO CLIP
OF WHAT HE SAID.
&gt;&gt; WHAT HAPPENED ON CAPITOL HILL
YESTERDAY WAS A DIRECT RESULT OF
HIS POISONING THE MINDS OF
PEOPLE WITH THE LIES.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU CANNOT HEAR THAT, WHAT
JOHN KELLY SAID ABOUT PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS THAT WHAT HAPPENED ON
CAPITOL HILL WAS A DIRECT RESULT
OF HIM POISONING THE MINDS OF
PEOPLE WITH LIES AND FRAUD
.
&gt;&gt; THE FORMER SPEAKER OF THE
HOUSE, JOHN WEINER DECLARED THAT
QUOTE, THE INVASION OF OUR
CAPITAL BY A MOB INCITED BY LIES
FROM SOMEONE ENTRUSTED WITH
POWER IS A DISGRACE
TO BUILD OUR REPUBLIC. THIS WAS
ECHOED BY A FORMER TRUMP
OFFICIAL AFTER FORMER TRUMP
OFFICIAL. HERE IS
JOHN BOLTON AND H. R. McMASTER
AND FORMER WHITE HOUSE
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR AND
FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF MICK
MULVANEY, HERE IS WHAT THEY SAID
.
&gt;&gt; LET ME JUST ASK YOU, DO YOU
THINK PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS BLOOD
ON HIS HANDS?
&gt;&gt; I THINK HE DOES. LOOK, I
AGREE WITH BILL BARR. I THINK HE
DID INCITE THE MOB WITH THE
CLEAR INTENTION OF HAVING THEM
DISRUPT THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE
CERTIFICATION AND DELAY IT TO
GIVE HIM MORE TIME. I DON'T
THINK THERE IS ANY QUESTION
ABOUT IT.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE MANY REASONS FOR
THE ASSAULT ON THE CAPITAL BUT
FOREMOST AMONG THEM WAS THE
PRESIDENT'S SUSTAINED THIS
INFORMATION. WE HAVE SEEN A
PRESIDENT STOKING FEARS AMIDST A
CRISIS.
&gt;&gt; FIRST AND FOREMOST, I WANT TO
SAY WHAT HAPPENED AT THE CAPITAL
WAS UNACCEPTABLE, UN-AMERICAN
AND UNDEMOCRATIC
.
&gt;&gt; I THINK EVERYBODY RECOGNIZES
THAT WHAT HAPPENED ON WEDNESDAY
IS DIFFERENT
. YOU CAN GO DOWN THE LONG
LITANY OF THINGS THAT PEOPLE
COMPLAIN ABOUT WITH DONALD
TRUMP. I COULD DEFEND ALMOST ANY
OF THEM INCLUDING POLICY
DIFFERENCES. MANY WERE STYLISTIC
DIFFERENCES
, BUT WEDNESDAY WAS DIFFERENT.
WEDNESDAY WAS EXISTENTIAL AND IT
STRUCK TO THE VERY HEART OF WHAT
IT MEANS TO BE AN AMERICAN AND
IT WAS WRONG.
&gt;&gt; MICK MULVANEY, THE
PRESIDENT'S FORMER CHIEF OF
STAFF IS SAYING WHAT WE ALL FELT
. THAT JANUARY 6 WAS DIFFERENT.
IT WAS EXISTENTIAL. IT WAS WRONG
. IT WAS UN-AMERICAN
. THIS SENTIMENT WAS ECHOED
NOT JUST FROM PEOPLE OUTSIDE THE
ADMINISTRATION, BUT FROM PEOPLE
INSIDE THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION.
PERHAPS MOST TELLING WAS THE
FLOOD OF RESIGNATIONS FROM
PEOPLE INSIDE PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ADMINISTRATION WHO HAD ACCESS TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP. HIS OWN
OFFICIALS ALSO BETRAYED BY HIS
CONDUCT THAT NUMEROUS OFFICIALS
RESIGNED IN PROTEST DAYS BEFORE
THE END PRESIDENT TRUMP'S TERM.
16 OFFICIALS RESIGNED IN
PROTEST. 16. THEY ALL TOOK THIS
DRAMATIC ACTION OF RESIGNING
BECAUSE THEY SAW THE CLEAR LINK
BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
CONDUCT AND THE VIOLENT
INSURRECTION. HERE IS SOME OF
WHAT THEY SAID. SECRETARY
DIVORCE WHO WAS IN THE
ADMINISTRATION THE ENTIRE TERM.
SHE GAVE HER RESIGNATION LETTER
AND TOLD PRESIDENT TRUMP, THERE
IS NO MISTAKING THE IMPACT YOUR
RHETORIC HAD ON THIS. IT IS AN
INFLECTION POINT FOR ME. AND
SECRETARY CHAO WHO WAS IN THE
ADMINISTRATION THE ENTIRE TERM
EXPLAINED, YESTERDAY AT, OUR
COUNTRY EXPERIENCED A TRAUMATIC
AND ENTIRELY AVOIDABLE EVENT AS
SUPPORTERS OF THE PRESIDENT
STORMED THE CAPITAL WITH A RALLY
THAT HE ADDRESSED
. AS IS THE CASE WITH YOU, IT
HAS DEEPLY TROUBLED ME IN A WAY
I SIMPLY CANNOT SET ASIDE.
&gt;&gt; AND HE SAID IT WAS HIS
BREAKING POINT AND HE WAS HOPING
IT WAS A WAKE-UP CALL
.
&gt;&gt; THESE REBUKES AND
RESIGNATIONS FROM PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S OWN ADMINISTRATION MAKE
CLEAR THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
CONDUCT WAS ANYTHING BUT TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE. THEY ALSO REMIND US
THAT THIS CAN AND MUST BE A
WAKE-UP CALL
. AS REPRESENTATIVE FRED UPTON
ELOQUENTLY PUT IT, PRESIDENT
TRUMP EXPRESSED NO REGRETS FOR
LAST WEEK'S VIOLENT INDISCRETION
AT THE U.S. CAPITOL. THIS SENDS
EXACTLY THE WRONG SIGNAL TO
THOSE OF US WHO SUPPORT THE VERY
CORE OF OUR DEMOCRATIC
PRINCIPLES AND TOOK A SOLEMN
OATH TO THE CONSTITUTION. IT IS
TIME TO SAY, ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.
NOW, NO ONE IS SAYING HERE THE
PRESIDENT TRUMP CANNOT CONTEST
THE ELECTION. OF COURSE HE CAN
. BUT, WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP DID,
AS IS FORMER CHIEF FIXED STAFF
EXPLAINED, WAS DIFFERENT. IT WAS
DISHONORABLE AND IT WAS
UN-AMERICAN AND IT RESULTED IN
FATALITIES.
PRESIDENT TRUMP SPENT MONTHS
INFLAMING HIS SUPPORTERS. HE
SPREAD LIES TO INCITE A VIOLENT
ATTACK ON OUR CAPITAL AND ON LAW
ENFORCEMENT ON ON ALL OF US.
THEN HE LIED AGAIN TO HIS BASE
TELLING THEM THAT THIS WAS ALL
OKAY UNACCEPTABLE. THAT IS WHY
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS SO DANGEROUS.
BECAUSE HE WOULD HAVE ALL
AMERICANS BELIEVE THAT ANY
PRESIDENT WHO COMES AFTER HIM
CAN DO EXACTLY THE SAME THING.
THAT IS WHY LACK OF REMORSE IS
AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN
IMPEACHMENT. BECAUSE
IMPEACHMENT, CONVICTION
, AND DISQUALIFICATION IS NOT
JUST ABOUT THE PAST. IT IS ABOUT
THE FUTURE. IT IS MAKING SURE
THAT NO FUTURE OFFICIAL OR
PRESIDENT DOES THE SAME EXACT
THING PRESIDENT TRUMP DOES.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LACK OF
REMORSE SHOWS THAT HE WILL
UNDOUBTEDLY CAUSE FUTURE HARM,
IF ALLOWED. HE REFUSES TO
ACCOUNT FOR HIS PREVIOUS CRIME
AGAINST OUR GOVERNMENT
. YOU KNOW, I'M NOT AFRAID OF
DONALD TRUMP RUNNING AGAIN IN
FOUR YEARS, I'M AFRAID HE'S
GOING TO RUN AGAIN AND LOSE,
BECAUSE HE CAN DO THIS AGAIN. WE
ARE IN AN UNUSUAL SITUATION.
DESPITE PRESIDENT TRUMP'S CLAIM
THAT EVERYONE THINKS THAT WHAT
HE DID WAS FINE. SOME OF COME
OUT AND SPOKEN SO STRONGLY AND
PASSIONATELY ABOUT WHAT HAS
HAPPENED HERE. I WOULD LIKE TO
HIGHLIGHT A STATEMENT FROM
REPRESENTATIVE ANTHONY GONZALEZ
WHO SAID
, THE VICE PRESIDENT AND BOTH
CHAMBERS OF CONGRESS HAVE THEIR
LIVES PUT IN DANGER AS RESULT OF
THE PRESENT'S ACTIONS IN THE
EVENTS LEADING UP TO AND ON
JANUARY 6. DURING THE ATTACK
ITSELF, THE PRESIDENT ABANDON
HIS POST WELL MANY MEMBERS ASKED
FOR HELP AND FURTHER LEE
ENDANGERED ALL THOSE PRESENT
. THEY ARE FUNDAMENTAL THREATS
NOT JUST TO LIVES, BUT TO THE
VERY FOUNDATION OF OUR REPUBLIC.
&gt;&gt; NOW, I WOULD LIKE TO SHOW
WHAT MEMBERS OF CONGRESS SAID
LEADING UP TO THE MOST BY THE
PARTISAN IMPEACHMENT VOTE IN
U.S. HISTORY. I DO WANT EVERYONE
WATCHING,
ESPECIALLY PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
SUPPORTERS TO SEE FIRSTHAND WHAT
I BELIEVE WE ALL FEEL
. THAT WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP DID
WAS NOT APPROPRIATE AND THAT IT
WAS NOT AMERICAN AND THAT IT
ABSOLUTELY CANNOT STAND.
&gt;&gt; WHAT HE HAS DONE AND WHAT HE
HAS CAUSED HERE IS SOMETHING WE
HAVE NEVER SEEN BEFORE IN OUR
HISTORY.
&gt;&gt; ALL INDICATIONS ARE THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS BECOME [
INDISCERNIBLE ] FROM HIS DUTY
AND REALITY ITSELF.
&gt;&gt;
WHAT HAPPENED ON SOCIAL MEDIA ON
JANUARY 6 AND IN HIS SPEECH THAT
DAY, HE PROMOTED BASELESS
THEORIES PROMOTING A ENVIRONMENT
OF
DIVISION. TO ALLOW THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES TO INCITE
THIS ATTACK WITHOUT CONSEQUENCES
IS A DIRECT THREAT TO THE FUTURE
OF THIS DEMOCRACY.
&gt;&gt; AFTER THIS TRIAL, I HOPE YOU
WILL COME TOGETHER AND CAST YOUR
VOTE AND MAKE ABSOLUTELY CLEAR
HOW WE, AS A CONGRESS, AND AS A
NATION, FEEL ABOUT ONE DONALD
TRUMP DID BY CONVICTING HIM. AND
PREVENT THIS FROM BEING ONLY THE
BEGINNING, AS PRESIDENT TRUMP
SAID
, AND IT SURE FUTURE PRESIDENTS
WHO DO NOT LIKE THE OUTCOME OF A
NATIONAL ELECTION FROM BELIEVING
THEY CAN FOLLOW IN PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S FOOTSTEPS. IT IS WHAT
OUR CONSTITUTION REQUIRES AND IT
IS WHAT OUR COUNTRY DESERVES.
&gt;&gt; REPRESENTATIVE TO GET WILL
SHOW HOW EXTREMISTS WERE
EMBOLDENED AND PLANNED TO ATTACK
THE INAUGURATION
&gt;&gt; MY COLLEAGUES HAVE SHOWED YOU
THE OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE OF HOW
PRESIDENT TRUMP OPUS CONDUCT
ASSEMBLED, INCITED, AND INFLAMED
THE MOB. WE HAVE SHOWN HOW AND
WHY THIS ATTACK AND THIS
VIOLENCE WAS NOT ONLY
FORESEEABLE, BUT PREVENTABLE. WE
SHOWED THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP KNEW
HIS CONDUCT COULD AND WOULD
RESULT IN VIOLENCE. AND, WHEN
THE ATTACK OCCURRED, HE DID NOT
FULFILL HIS DUTY AS
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF AND DEFEND
US. INSTEAD, HE WAS DELIGHTED.
DONALD TRUMP INCITED A VIOLENT
INSURRECTION.
HE FAILED TO DEFEND OUR NATION,
OUR CAPITAL, THIS CONGRESS, AND
OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT FROM THE
ATTACK INSIDE IT. NOW I WANT TO
TURN TO THE IMPACT. THE
LONG-TERM HARM OF THIS CONDUCT.
MY COLLEAGUES AND I WILL WALK
THROUGH THE BREADTH AND GRAVITY
OF THIS HARM. I WOULD LIKE TO
START WITH THE EFFECT THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP OPUS CONDUCT HAD
ON OUR DOMESTIC SECURITY. WE
SAW, FIRSTHAND
, HOW DONALD TRUMP'S CONDUCT IN
BOLDED AND ESCALATED DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE AND EXTREMISM. THIS IS
KNOWN IN THE LAW ENFORCEMENT
COMMUNITY AS DV ES. THESE PEOPLE
WERE AND ARE MADE WORSE BY
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S REFUSAL TO
TAKE ACCOUNTABILITY AND HIS
REFUSAL BULL TO
DENOUNCE WHAT THE FBI IDENTIFIED
AS SOME OF THE MOST DANGEROUS
ELEMENTS OF OUR COUNTRY. EVEN AS
THE ATTACK WAS UNDERWAY, HE
TWEETED WORDS OF SUPPORT TO HIS
VIOLENT SUPPORTERS. AND THAT, IN
THE AFTERMATH OF JANUARY 7,
PRESIDENT TRUMP MADE IT CLEAR
THAT THIS WAS ONLY THE
BEGINNING.
&gt;&gt; UNTO ALL OF MY WONDERFUL
SUPPORTERS, I KNOW YOU ARE
DISAPPOINTED, BUT I ALSO WANT
YOU TO KNOW THAT OUR INCREDIBLE
JOURNEY IS ONLY JUST BEGINNING
.
&gt;&gt; HE WAS RIGHT. UNLESS WE TAKE
ACTION, THE VIOLENCE IS ONLY
JUST BEGINNING. IN THE AFTERMATH
OF THE ATTACK, WE SAW A HUGE
RISE IN THREATS FROM DOMESTIC
VIOLENT EXTREMISTS. INCLUDING
SPECIFIC THREATS TO THE
INAUGURATION
IN D.C. MAC AND DO ALL 50 STATE
CAPITALS. OUR INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES CONFIRMED THAT IN
ADDITION
TO THE SPECIFIC THREATS,
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S CONDUCT
EMBOLDENED THE VERY SAME VIOLENT
GROUPS WHO INITIATED THE ATTACK
AND SPARKED NEW VIOLENT
COALITIONS. THESE GROUPS
BELIEVED THAT THEY WERE
FOLLOWING HIS ORDERS. THEY
BELIEVE THEIR ACTS OF
INSURRECTION AND VIOLENCE ARE
PATRIOTIC.
VIOLENCE IS NEVER PATRIOTIC AND
IT'S NEVER AMERICAN. IT'S NOT
THE DEMOCRATIC WAY AND IT'S NOT
THE REPUBLICAN WAY. AFTER THE
ATTACK, THE NATION'S TOP DEFENSE
AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
REPORTED AN INCREASE IN CREDIBLE
THREATS TO THE INAUGURATION FROM
DONALD TRUMP
'S SUPPORTERS. ON JANUARY 13,
2021, A JOINT INTELLIGENCE
BULLETIN ISSUED BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
THE FBI, AND THE NATIONAL
COUNTERTERRORISM ORGANIZATION
FOUND THAT QUOTE SINCE THE
JANUARY 6 EVENT, VIOLENT ONLINE
RHETORIC CONCERNING THE
PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION HAS
INCREASED WITH SOME CALLING FOR
UNSPECIFIED, QUOTE,
THE JANUARY 6 FATAL SHOOTING BY
LAW ENFORCEMENT OF A PARTICIPANT
WHO ILLEGALLY ENTERED THE
CAPITOL BUILDING . AND ANOTHER
POSTING THAT SAID THAT MANY
ARMED INDIVIDUALS WOULD RETURN
ON 19 JANUARY. THE AGENCIES ALSO
MADE CLEAR WHY THE THREATS WERE
ESCALATING, ESPECIALLY REGARDING
THE INAUGURATION. THE REPORT
EXPLAINED THAT A PRIMARY
MOTIVATING FACTOR WAS, QUOTE,
THE SHARED FALSE NARRATIVE OF A
STOLEN ELECTION.
AND, OPPOSITION TO THE CHANGE IN
CONTROL OF THE EXECUTIVE AND
LEGISLATIVE WRENCHES OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT. IT MAY NEED
SOME INDIVIDUALS TO ADOPT THE
BELIEF THAT THERE IS NO
POLITICAL SOLUTION TO ADDRESS
THEIR GRIEVANCES AND THAT
VIOLENT ACTION IS NECESSARY. IN
OTHER WORDS, PRESIDENT TRUMP
'S SPREADING OF INFLAMMATORY
DISINFORMATION ABOUT THE
ELECTION AND CITED THE
INSURRECTION ON JANUARY 6 AND
MAY LEADS TO FURTHER VIOLENCE.
ONLINE
, JUST AS THEY DID PRIOR TO THE
JANUARY 6 ATTACK, TRUMP
SUPPORTERS TOOK TO THE INTERNET
TO ORGANIZE AND DOCUMENT THEIR
DESIRE AND PLANS FOR FUTURE
VIOLENCE AT PRESIDENT BIDEN'S
INAUGURATION.
AND, INDEED, IN THE DAYS SHORTLY
AFTER THE ATTACK
, SEVERAL POSTERS ON EXTREME
SOCIAL MEDIA WEBSITES MADE
FURTHER PLANS FOR VIOLENCE. THEY
POSTED, QUOTE, MANY OF US WILL
RETURN ON JANUARY 9 TEEN, 2021
, CARRYING OUR WEAPONS IN
SUPPORT OF OUR NATION'S RESOLVED
TO WHICH THE WORLD WILL NEVER
FORGET. WE WILL COME IN NUMBERS.
NO STANDING ARMY OR POLICE
AGENCY CAN MATCH. QUOTE, WE TOOK
THE BUILDING ONCE AND WE CAN
TAKE IT AGAIN. OTHER USERS,
EAGER TO PARTICIPATE IN
ADDITIONAL ATTACKS CONFIRMED
THEY WERE WAITING ON PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S INSTRUCTIONS ABOUT WHAT
TO DO NEXT. REFERRING TO A
FUTURE PLANNED ATTACK, A USER ON
THE UNKNOWN
-- ON THE PLATFORM KNOWN AS GAP
SAID, DOES OUR PRESIDENT WANT US
THERE
? AWAITING INSTRUCTIONS.
&gt;&gt; IN FACT, IN THE DAYS LEADING
UP TO THE INAUGURATION, MULTIPLE
INDIVIDUALS, MANY POTENTIALLY IN
AN ATTEMPT TO CARRY OUT THE
PLOTS THAT I JUST PREVIEWED,
WERE ARRESTED IN WASHINGTON,
D.C., INCLUDING ON SERIOUS
WEAPONS CHARGES. ONE OF THOSE
MEN WAS GRIFFIN, THE FOUNDER OF
COWBOYS FOR TRUMP. HE WAS ALSO
ARRESTED ON JANUARY 17.
WHAT HE SAID
ABOUT HIS PLANS FOR VIOLENCE.
&gt;&gt; YOU WANT TO SAY THAT WAS MOB
AND VIOLENCE. NO, SIR, NO, MA'AM
. WE COULD HAVE A SECOND
AMENDMENT RALLY ON THE SAME
STEPS WHERE WE HAD THE RALLY
YESTERDAY. IF WE DO, THEN IT
WILL BE A SAD DAY BECAUSE THERE
WILL BE BLOOD RUNNING OUT OF
THAT BUILDING. AT THE END OF THE
DAY, YOU WILL MARK MY WORD THAT
WE WILL PLANT A FLAG ON THE DESK
OF NANCY PELOSI AND CHUCK
SCHUMER.
&gt;&gt; BLOOD RUNNING OUT OF THE
BUILDING. THIS BUILDING. THE
CAPITOL  WHERE ALL OF US ARE
RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; NOW, THE NAME COUY GRIFFIN
MAY SOUND FAMILIAR BECAUSE HE
PREVIOUSLY  FACED CONTROVERSY
WHEN HE SAID
QUOTE, THE ONLY GOOD DEMOCRAT IS
A DEAD DEMOCRAT.
&gt;&gt; I'VE COME TO THE CONCLUSION
THAT THE ONLY GOOD DEMOCRAT IS A
DEAD DEMOCRAT.
&gt;&gt; [ CHEERING AND APPLAUSE ].
&gt;&gt; NOW, WHEN HE SAID THIS,
PRESIDENT TRUMP ACTUALLY TWEETED
GRIFFIN AND THANKED HIM FOR THAT
SENTIMENT.
WHEN DONALD TRUMP RETWEETED
THIS, HE WAS NO STRANGER TO
GRIFFIN. IN FACT, IN MARCH 2019
, OVER A YEAR EARLIER, GRIFFIN
AND TRUMP SPOKE ON THE PHONE
NEARLY 30 MINUTES. PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S CONDUCT, WITHOUT A DOUBT
, MADE IT CLEAR THAT HE
SUPPORTED GRIFFIN. IN FACT,
GRIFFIN EVEN SAID SO HIMSELF
. AS GRIFFIN LATER SAID ABOUT
PRESIDENT TRUMP REITs WEEDING
HIS INFLAMMATORY COMMENT ABOUT
THE DEAD DEMOCRATS, QUOTE, IT
REALLY MEANS A LOT TO ME BECAUSE
I KNOW THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES HAS MY BACK.
REMEMBER, THIS IS A MAN WHO WAS
HERE ON JANUARY 6. HE WAS
ARRESTED AFTER THREATENING TO
COME BACK HERE TO MAKE BLOOD
COME RUNNING OUT OF THIS
BUILDING. THREATS LIKE GRIFFIN'S
HAVE
TRIGGERED A DEPLOYMENT OF
FORCES, THE LIKES OF WHICH WE
HAVE NEVER SEEN. THERE WERE
APPROXIMATELY 25,000 NATIONAL
GUARD TROOPS BROUGHT IN FROM
AROUND THE COUNTRY TO PROTECT
D.C. LEADING UP TO AND ON
INAUGURATION DAY. AS YOU KNOW
MANY OF THOSE TROOPS ARE STILL
HERE. TAKE A LOOK AT THAT.
THESE
WERE SCENES THAT PLAYED OUT ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY FOLLOWING THE
SIEGE ON THE CAPITOL  ON JANUARY
11, 2021 THE FBI SAID THAT ARMED
PROTESTS ARE BEING PLANNED IT
ALL 50 STATE CAPITALS FROM 16
JANUARY THROUGH 20 JANUARY AND
AT THE U.S. CAPITOL FROM 17
JANUARY THROUGH 20 JANUARY. AS A
RESULT, AT LEAST 21 STATES
ACTIVATED THEIR NATIONAL GUARD
SENT PREPARATION FOR THE
POTENTIAL ATTACKS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S INCITEMENT HAS
REVERBERATED AROUND THE COUNTRY.
PROMPTING
MASSIVE LAW ENFORCEMENT
MOBILIZATION IN SEVERAL STATE
CAPITALS, INCLUDING WASHINGTON,
ILLINOIS, MICHIGAN, AND GEORGIA.
LOOK AT THESE PHOTOS. THIS IS
WHAT DONALD TRUMP HAS DONE TO
AMERICA. THIS MASSIVE DEPLOYMENT
OF LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS COST THE
TAXPAYERS DEARLY. THE NATIONAL
GUARD DEPLOYMENT
TO D.C. ALONE IS EXPECTED TO
COST AT LEAST $480 MILLION. THE
BILLS ARE ALSO RACKING UP IN THE
STATES. NORTH CAROLINA, SOUTH
CAROLINA
, PENNSYLVANIA, UTAH, AND
WISCONSIN HAVE EACH SPENT ABOUT
HALF $1 MILLION TO SAFEGUARD
THEIR CAPITALS IN THE RUNOFF TO
THE INAUGURATION. OHIO SPENT
$1.2 MILLION OVER THE SAME TWO
WEEK PERIOD. REMEMBER THAT THIS
IS AT A TIME WHEN STATE BUDGETS
ARE ALREADY SUFFERING UNDER THE
WEIGHT OF THE PANDEMIC. OUR
BRAVE SERVICEMEMBERS SHOWED UP
AND THANKS TO THEIR DEDICATION
AND VIGILANCE, THE INAUGURATION
IN THE DAYS LEADING UP TO IT
PROCEEDED WITHOUT INCIDENT. IN
FACT, AFTER NEWS BROKE OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT
'S PREPAREDNESS FOR FURTHER
ATTACKS, LEADERS OF THE PROUD
BOYS AND ORGANIZERS OF THE MEGA
MAN MARCH TOLD FOLLOWERS TO
AVOID PROTESTS UP TO OR LEADING
UP TO THE INAUGURATION FOR FEAR
THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT WOULD CRUSH
THEM AND ARREST THE WRITERS WHO
SHOWED UP. THANK GOD THERE WAS
NOT AN INSURRECTION HERE ON
JANUARY 20.
BUT, LOOK AT THE PRICE WE HAVE
PAID AND THE PRICE WE ARE STILL
PAYING. IT IS NOT JUST DOLLARS
AND CENTS. THIS CAPITOL HAS
BECOME A FORTRESS  AS STATE
CAPITOLS HAVE ACROSS THE COUNTRY
. OUR CONSTITUENTS NO LONGER
HAVE HAVE HAVE ACCESS TO ELECTED
REPRESENTATIVES. EVERY DEMOCRAT
AND REPUBLICAN
, INCLUDING PEOPLE WHO CAME HERE
ON JANUARY 6, PEACEFULLY, ARE
PAYING THE PRICE. IT IS NOT JUST
A LACK OF ACCESS, IT IS A
DIMMING OF FREEDOM AND IT'S A
DIMMING OF ALL OF OUR FREEDOMS.
WE MUST UPHOLD OUR OATH
AS THE TENS OF THOUSANDS OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS HAVE DONE
IN THE WAKE OF JANUARY 6.
BECAUSE, IF WE DO NOT, PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S MOB STANDS READY FOR
MORE ATTACKS.
NOW, THIS SHOULD BE NO SURPRISE.
HAD HE BEEN A COMMANDER IN CHIEF
WHO INCITES VIOLENCE HAS GIVEN
LIFE TO THE EXISTING VIOLENT
GROUPS THAT HE SPENT YEARS
CULTIVATING AND HE HAS INSPIRED
NEW COALITIONS AMONG EXTREMIST
GROUPS WHO VIEW JANUARY AS A
SUCCESS. ACCORDING TO THE FBI,
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ASSEMBLAGE OF
HIS MOB WAS PARTICULARLY
DANGEROUS BECAUSE QUOTE,  IN
PERSON ENGAGEMENT BETWEEN DVES
OF DIFFERENT ETIOLOGICAL GOALS
DURING THE CAPITOL BREACH
LIKELY SERVE TO, FOSTER
CONNECTIONS WHICH MAY INCREASE
WILLINGNESS, CAPABILITY AND
MOTIVATION TO ATTACK AND
UNDERMINE THE GOVERNMENT THAT
THEY VIEW AS ILLEGITIMATE. IN
OTHER WORDS, THEY ALL GOT TO
TALKING TO EACH OTHER. THIS
BULLETIN
BY OUR OWN INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE WAS ALSO CONFIRMED BY
CONCRETE EVIDENCE
. RIOTERS CELEBRATED THEIR ROLES
IN A JANUARY 6 ATTACK ON SOCIAL
MEDIA.  THEY BOASTED ABOUT THEIR
SUCCESS IN BREACHING THE CAPITOL
AND FORCING MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
AND THE VICE PRESIDENT TO
EVACUATE. TAKE, FOR EXAMPLE, A
RIGHT WING PROVOCATEUR. THE
BEFORE THE INSURRECTION, HE SAID
ON HIS INTERNET SHOW, WHAT YOU
AND I DO WITH THE STATE
LEGISLATURE. I AM NOT
THAT.
&gt;&gt; HE WAS AT THE CAPITOL ON
JANUARY 6  AND PRAISED THE
INSURRECTION AS GLORIOUS AND
AWE-INSPIRING. HE LATER SAID,
QUOTE
, WE FORCED A JOINT SESSION OF
CONGRESS AND THE VICE PRESIDENT
TO EVACUATE
BECAUSE TRUMP SUPPORTERS WERE
BANGING DOWN AND SUCCESSFULLY
BURST THROUGH THE DOORS. HE WAS
NOT THE ONLY PROVOCATEUR TO
REVEL IN THE VIOLENCE. ACCORDING
TO MIKE DUNN, AN ANTIGOVERNMENT
MOVEMENT WHO HAD MULTIPLE GROUPS
STORMING THE CAPITOL. THEY WILL
BE WORKING OVERTIME TO
CAPITALIZE ON THE JANUARY 6
RIOTS AND HOPE IT WILL LEAD TO
MORE ACTION . THEY SAID, QUOTE,
JUST KNOW THERE IS MORE TO COME.
&gt;&gt; PROUD BOYS MEMBERS WERE
BRAGGING ABOUT THE ATTACK ON THE
CAPITOL.  ONE POST ON THE PROUD
BOYS CHANNEL SAID THAT PEOPLE
SAW WHAT WE CAN DO AND THEY KNOW
WHAT WE ARE UP TO AND THEY WANT
IN. THE LEADER OF THE PROUD
BOYS, HIMSELF, SENT THE SAME
MESSAGE. HE SAID
, THAT THE PROUD BOYS WOULD BE
ACTIVE DURING BIDEN'S
PRESIDENCY. HE SAID YOU WILL
DEFINITELY SEE MORE OF US. AND
EXTREMIST GROUPS ARE BOASTING
THAT THE ATTACK ON OUR CAPITOL
IS A BOON FOR THEIR RECRUITMENT
EFFORTS. SECURITY FORCE LEADER,
CHRIS HILL
, SAID HE HAS BEEN CONTACTED BY
SEVERAL PEOPLE INTERESTED IN
JOINING SINCE THEY INSURRECTION.
AND FOCUSING ON DOMESTIC
EXTREMISM, GERRIT HOLT STATED
THAT BY
ALL MEASURABLE EFFECTS, THIS IT
WAS FAR RIGHT EXTREMISTS AND ONE
OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL ATTACKS
THEY HAVE WATCHED. THEY ARE
TALKING ABOUT THIS AS A FIRST
STAB AT A GREATER RESOLUTION.
&gt;&gt; AS INDICATED BY MR. HOLT
, THE PERCEIVED SUCCESS HAS
GIVEN ENCOURAGEMENT TO CONTINUE
AND TO ESCALATE ATTACKS.
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES HAVE NOTED
THAT THESE EXTREMIST GROUPS WILL
UNFORTUNATELY BE TARGETING
VULNERABLE MINORITY COMMUNITIES
IN THE U.S..
&gt;&gt;&gt; ON JANUARY 27, 2021, DHS
SAID THAT QUOTE, LONG-STANDING
AND
ETHNIC TENSION THAT LED TO THE
SORT OF A MAN KILLING 23 PEOPLE
AT AN EL PASO WALMART WILL
CONTINUE TO GROW AND MOTIVATE
FURTHER ATTACKS. THE JANUARY 13
JOINT INTELLIGENCE REPORT STATED
THAT IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER
TYPES OF VIOLENCE LISTED,
DVE'S MAY BE INCITED TO CARRY
OUT MORE VIOLENCE, INCLUDING
VIOLENCE AGAINST RACIAL, ETHNIC
AND RELIGIOUS MINORITIES  AND
ASSOCIATED INSTITUTIONS,
JOURNALISTS, MEMBERS OF THE
LGBTQ PLUS COMMUNITY AND OTHER
TARGETS COMMON AMONG SOME DVE'S
. THESE PREJUDICED ELEMENTS
COULD BE SEEN VISIBLY IN THE
ATTACK AND IN THE CROWD THAT
ATTACKED THE CAPITOL . PICTURED
HERE IS ROBERT PACKER. ROBERT
PACKER IS AN AVOWED WHITE
SUPREMACIST
AND AVOWED HOLOCAUST DENIER. HE
WORE A SHOW SHIRT THAT SAID
QUOTE, CAMP AUSCHWITZ. AS YOU
HAVE HEARD,
THE INSURRECTIONIST THAT
ATTACKED THE CAPITOL ON JANUARY
6 HURLED RACIAL SLUR'S
INCLUDING AT BLACK POLICE
OFFICERS. ONE OFFICER DESCRIBED
THE TRAUMA HE EXPERIENCED WHEN
THE RIOTERS SEIZED THE CAPITOL .
HE SAID QUOTE, I'M A BLACK
OFFICER AND THERE WAS A LOT OF
RACISM THAT DAY. I WAS CALLED
RACIAL SLUR'S AND IN THE MOMENT
, I DID NOT PROCESS THIS AS
TRAUMATIC. I WAS JUST TRYING TO
SURVIVE
. I JUST WANTED TO GET HOME TO
SEE MY DAUGHTER AGAIN. I COULD
NOT SHOW WEAKNESS. I FINALLY
REACHED A SAFE PLACE SURROUNDED
BY OFFICERS AND I WAS ABLE TO
CRY AND TO LET IT OUT. TO
ATTEMPT TO PROCESS IT.
THESE EXTREMIST GROUPS WERE
EMBOLDENED BECAUSE PRESIDENT
TRUMP TOLD THEM, REPEATEDLY,
THAT THE INSURRECTIONIST
ACTIVITIES WERE THE PINNACLE OF
PATRIOTISM. WELL, LET TODAY BE
THE DAY THAT WE RECLAIM THE
DEFINITION OF PATRIOTISM
IMPEACHMENT IS NOT TO PUNISH,
BUT TO PREVENT. WE ARE NOT HERE
TO PUNISH DONALD TRUMP, WE ARE
HERE TO PREVENT THE SEEDS OF
HATRED THAT HE PLANTED FROM
BEARING ANY MORE FRUIT. AS MY
COLLEAGUES SHOWED
, THIS WAS NOT THE FIRST TIME
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP INSPIRED
VIOLENCE. BUT, IT MUST BE THE
LAST TIME THAT HE IS GIVEN A
PLATFORM TO DO SO. THIS MUST BE
OUR WAKE-UP CALL. WE MUST
CONDEMN IT BECAUSE THE THREAT IS
NOT OVER
. PRESIDENT TRUMP REFUSED TO
CONDEMN THIS TYPE OF VIOLENCE.
INSTEAD, OVER AND OVER AGAIN HE
HAS ENCOURAGED IT. OUR RESPONSE
MUST BE DIFFERENT THIS TIME. WE
SIMPLY CANNOT SWEEP THIS UNDER
THE RUG. WE MUST TAKE A UNITED
STAND, ALL OF US THAT THIS IS
NOT AMERICAN. THE BACK TO AUGUST
2017 WHEN A YOUNG WOMAN WAS
MURDERED DURING A WHITE
SUPREMACIST RALLY IN
CHARLOTTESVILLE, WEST VIRGINIA.
HER NAME WAS HEATHER HEYER AND
HERNE MOTHER WAS SUSAN.
HER MOTHER HAS BEEN A STEADFAST
ADVOCATE FOR HER DAUGHTER'S
MEMORY. IN THE 2018 INTERVIEW,
SHE EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT
PEOPLE HAD RUSHED TOO QUICKLY TO
RECONCILIATION WITHOUT
ACCOUNTABILITY.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU RUSH TO HEAL AND IF
YOU RUSH TO EVERYBODY GRAB EACH
OTHER AND SING KUMBAYA, WE'VE
ACCOMPLISHED NOTHING AND WE WILL
BE BACK HERE IN A FEW YEARS.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL BE RIGHT BACK HERE IN
A FEW YEARS. THOSE WERE HER
WORDS AND 2018. THAT WAS THREE
YEARS AGO. HER DAUGHTER'S
MURDERER WAS HELD TO ACCOUNT,
BUT OUR NATION DID NOT IMPOSE
ANY MEANINGFUL ACCOUNTABILITY ON
THE PRESIDENT WHO, AT THE TIME
SAID, THERE ARE VERY FINE PEOPLE
ON BOTH SIDES. NOW, WHERE ARE WE
THREE YEARS LATER? I WOULD ARGUE
THAT WE ARE NOT JUST BACK WHERE
WE WERE. I WOULD ARGUE THAT
THINGS ARE WORSE. IN 2017, IT
WAS THAT UNFATHOMABLE TO MOST OF
US TO THINK THAT CHARLOTTESVILLE
COULD HAPPEN
.  JUST AS IT WAS UNFATHOMABLE
TO MOST OF US THAT THE CAPITOL
COULD HAVE BEEN BREACHED ON
JANUARY 6. FRANKLY , WHAT
UNFATHOMABLE OARS AWAIT US IF WE
DO NOT STAND UP NOW AND SAY NO,
THIS IS NOT AMERICA. WE WILL NOT
JUST EXPRESS CONDOLENCES AND
DENUNCIATIONS. WE WILL NOT JUST
CLOSE THE BOOK AND TRY TO MOVE
ON. WE WILL ACT TO MAKE SURE
THAT THIS NEVER HAPPENS AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; REPRESENTATIVES WILL NOW COME
TO SHOW THE DAMAGE DONE TO
CONGRESS AND OUR DEMOCRATIC
PROCESS.
MR. CICILLINE .
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT AND DISTINGUISH
SENATORS, WE JUST HEARD FROM MY
COLLEAGUE
,  REP DEGETTE TALK ABOUT HOW
DONALD TRUMP
INCREASED THREATS TO OUR
SECURITY AND EMBOLDENED DOMESTIC
EXTREMISTS. I WOULD LIKE TO NOW
TURN TO THE HARM THAT WAS CAUSED
HERE, INSIDE THESE WALLS, AS A
RESULT OF THE CONDUCT ON JANUARY
6. THE HARM TO US AND TO
CONGRESS AND TO THOSE WHO SERVE
OUR COUNTRY. TO THE
CONSTITUTIONAL PROCESSES AS
TRUMP MOB TRIED TO STOP THE
ELECTION CERTIFICATION PROCESS.
THE ATTACK ON JANUARY 6 IS ONE
OF THE BLOODIEST INTRUSIONS OF
THE CAPITOL SINCE THE
BRITISH INVASION IN THE WAR OF
1812 AND THEY BURNED IT TO THE
GROUND. YOU HAVE HEARD IN
PAINSTAKING DETAIL
THAT THE PRESIDENT'S MOB POSED
AN IMMEDIATE AND SERIOUS THREAT
TO THE CONTINUITY AND
CONSTITUTIONAL SUCCESSION OF THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. THE
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD IN LINE
TO THE PRESIDENCY. THE VICE
PRESIDENT, SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEM
, ALTOGETHER FACED A COMMON
THREAT IN THE SAME LOCATION. WE
HAVE SEEN THE FIRST AND THE
SECOND WERE PURPOSELY TARGETED
BY THESE ATTACKERS. THESE WERE
NOT IDLE THREATS. THE MOB, AS
YOU HAVE HEARD, CHANTED, HANG
MIKE PENCE.
&gt;&gt; [ CROWD CHANTING ]. HANG MIKE
PENCE.
&gt;&gt;
THEY SAID THAT THEY WOULD'VE
KILLED VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE
AND SPEAKER PELOSI, IF THEY HAD
FOUND THEM. DON BANCROFT AND
DIANE SANTOS SMITH WERE TWO OF
THE WRITERS
CAUGHT ON TAPE DISCUSSING THE
BRUTAL VIOLENCE THEY HOPE TO
INFLICT ON SPEAKER PELOSI HAD
SHE NOT BEEN RUSHED OUT TO
SAFETY.  THEY SAID QUOTE, WE
BROKE INTO THE CAPITOL AND WE
GOT INSIDE AND WE DID OUR PART .
WE WERE LOOKING FOR NANCY TO
SHOOT HER IN THE FREAKING BRAIN,
BUT WE DIDN'T FIND HER,".
SENATORS, SIMPLY PUT, THIS MOB
WAS TRYING TO OVERTHROW OUR
GOVERNMENT. THEY CAME PERILOUSLY
CLOSE TO REACHING THE FIRST
THREE PEOPLE IN LINE TO THE
PRESIDENCY. IT WASN'T JUST THE
VICE PRESIDENT AND THE SPEAKER
, THE RIOTERS WERE PREPARED TO
ATTACK ANY MEMBER OF CONGRESS
THEY FOUND. THOMAS EDWARD
CALDWELL AND DONNA BURKE KROLL
AND JESSICA MARIE WATKINS,
COALITION MEMBERS WERE ALSO
CHARGED IN THE ROLE OF THE
ATTACK. THEY TALKED ABOUT
TRAPPING US IN THE UNDERGROUND
TUNNELS. THERE WAS SOCIAL MEDIA
CHATTER WITH
QUOTE, ALL MEMBERS ARE IN THE
TUNNEL UNDER THE CAPITOL. SEAL
THEM IN AND TURN ON THE GAS .
ALL LEGISLATORS ARE IN THE
TUNNELS THREE FLOORS DOWN. DO
WHAT WE DID WHEN I WAS IN THE
CORPS AND START TEARING OUT THE
FLOORS AND GO FROM TOP TO
BOTTOM,". NEVER DID ANY OF US
IMAGINE THAT WE OR OUR
COLLEAGUES WOULD FACE MORTAL
PERIL BY A MOB RILED UP BY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE LEADER OF THE FREE WORLD.
BUT, WE DID. ALL BECAUSE DONALD
TRUMP COULD NOT ACCEPT ELECTION
DEFEAT. TRUMP CHOSE HIMSELF
ABOVE THE PEOPLE AND ABOVE OUR
INSTITUTIONS AND ABOVE OUR
DEMOCRACY. ABOVE ALL OF YOU
. YOU KNOW, WE HAVE HEARD TRUMP
A SPOUSE FOR TWO YEARS NOW THIS
AMERICA FIRST POLICY. BUT, HIS
TRUE NORTH STAR IS NOT AMERICA'S
WELL-BEING. IT IS NOT COUNTRY
FIRST LIKE OUR DEAR DEPARTED
COLLEAGUE, JOHN McCAIN. HIS IS
TRUMP FIRST. NO MATTER THE COST
AND NO MATTER THE THREAT TO OUR
DEMOCRACY. BUT, EACH AND EVERY
ONE OF US IN THIS ROOM MUST
AGREE ON ONE THING. WE CAN NEVER
ALLOW THE KIND OF VIOLENT ATTACK
THAT OCCURRED ON JANUARY 6 TO
EVER HAPPEN AGAIN IN THIS
COUNTRY. IN THE IMMEDIATE
AFTERMATH
, WE HEARD REALLY DISTURBING
ACCOUNTS FROM MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS ABOUT WHAT THEY
EXPERIENCED THAT DAY. HERE ARE
SOME OF THOSE REACTIONS
. FOLLOWING THE ATTACK,
REPRESENTATIVE DUSTY JOHNSON
EXPRESSED CONCERNS THAT WE HAD
GOTTEN TO THE POINT WHERE SO
MANY OF US HAD SOWN THE SEEDS OF
ANGER AND DIVISION.
&gt;&gt; WE WERE BARRICADED AND THERE
WAS SOME FEAR, TO BE SURE.
OVERWHELMINGLY, THE EMOTION I
EXPERIENCED WAS ONE OF ANGER. I
CANNOT BELIEVE THIS WAS
HAPPENING. I CANNOT BELIEVE WE
HAD GOTTEN TO THIS POINT WHERE
SO MANY OF US HAD SOWN THE SEEDS
OF ANGER AND OF DIVISION AND WE
HAD BUILT A POWDER CAKE. REALLY,
WE WERE STARTING TO SEE THE
POWDER KEG LIGHT UP. FRANKLY, I
WAS FURIOUS.
&gt;&gt; REP JASON CROW COMPARED THE
EVENTS OF THIS DAY TO HIS TIME
AND HAVE ANNA STAN AS AN ARMY
RANGER, SOMETHING SENATOR REID
KNOW SOMETHING ABOUT
.
&gt;&gt; WHAT I FELT IN THE CAPITOL
BEHIND US IS SOMETHING I HAVE
NOT FELT SINCE I WAS IN
AFGHANISTAN AS AN ARMY RANGER .
TO THINK THAT IS A MEMBER OF
CONGRESS IN 2021 IN THE U.S.
CAPITOL AND ON THE HOUSE FLOOR,
I WAS PREPARING TO FIGHT MY WAY
OUT OF THE PEOPLE'S HOUSE
AGAINST A MOB IS BEYOND
TROUBLING.
&gt;&gt;
REPRESENTATIVE PAT FALLON WAS
HUMBLED BY HIS EXPERIENCE ON
JANUARY 6 AND DESCRIBED THE
EVENTS AS SURREAL AS THEY
UNFOLDED IN THE CAPITOL .
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; IT IS SOMETHING I NEVER
THOUGHT I WOULD SEE IN THE
NATION'S CAPITOL
. IT WAS THE BRAVERY AND COURAGE
OF FELLOW MEMBERS. WITH THE MOB
BANGING ON THE DOORS AND ALL
THAT KEPT THEM FROM REACHING THE
CHAMBER ITSELF WAS THE DOORS AND
THEN SOME FURNITURE WE HAD MOVED
.
&gt;&gt; SO TONY GONZALEZ, THE
FRESHMAN REPRESENTATIVE FROM
TEXAS AND MARKWAYNE MULLIN
STEPPED IN. WE BROKE OFF
FURNITURE. SOME OF THE HAND
SANITIZER STATIONS ARE ON THESE
BIG WOODEN POLES. WE TURNED THEM
UPSIDE DOWN AND WE WERE READY TO
ACTUALLY HAVE TO STREET FIGHT IN
THE HOUSE CHAMBER AND IT WAS
UNBELIEVABLE.
&gt;&gt; MANY MEMBERS, THAT DAY,
WONDERED IF THEY WOULD SEE THEIR
FAMILIES AGAIN. THEY WERE
OUTNUMBERED AND TRAPPED INSIDE.
THEY WERE CALLING LOVED ONES TO
SAY GOODBYE.
LISTEN TO HOW ONE REPRESENTATIVE
DESCRIBED THE IMPACT OF THE
RIOT.
&gt;&gt; I WAS LAYING ON THE FLOOR
TRYING TO, YOU KNOW, PROTECT
MYSELF BEHIND THIS LITTLE WALL.
WE ALL TOOK OUR PINS OFF BECAUSE
WE WERE CERTAIN THAT
IF THE MOB CAME IN THAT THEY
WOULD IDENTIFY US AS MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS. I CALLED MY WIFE AND,
YOU KNOW, IT WASN'T UNTIL I
HEARD HER VOICE THAT I THOUGHT,
WOW, THIS IS ONE OF THOSE CALLS
THAT PEOPLE HEAR ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; WHILE MOST COVERAGE
FOCUSED ON THE EXTREME DANGER
POSED TO THE MEMBERS AND THE
CAPITOL POLICE
,  WHO WERE TARGETS OF THIS
ATTACK, THERE WERE OTHER PEOPLE
IN THE CAPITOL WORKING ON
JANUARY 6 AS WELL . PERSONAL AID
AND EMPLOYEES AND FOOD SERVICE
WORKERS. WE CANNOT FORGET ALL
THE PEOPLE IN HARMS WAY THAT
DAY. THESE EMPLOYEES EXPERIENCED
TRAUMA. SOME COWARD HIDING IN
PLACES FEET AWAY FROM WHERE THIS
CROWD HAD ASSEMBLED. MANY WOULD
JUST
KIDS THAT WERE TWENTYSOMETHING
WHO CAME TO WORK BECAUSE THEY
BELIEVED IN THEIR COUNTRY AND
THEY BELIEVED IN WORKING TO MAKE
IT BETTER. OTHERS WERE DEDICATED
FOOD SERVICE WORKERS WHO WERE
WORKING HARD TO MAKE SURE WE CAN
COME HERE AND DO OUR JOBS. THESE
WORKERS ARE THE LIFEBLOOD OF THE
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH AND THEY
DESERVED BETTER. YOU HAVE HEARD
FROM SPEAKER PELOSI'S STAFF THAT
WAS HIDING UNDER THE CONFERENCE
TABLE AND COWERING IN THE DARK,
MAKING SURE THE ATTACKERS COULD
NOT HEAR THEM. I WOULD LIKE TO
SHARE WITH OTHER STAFFERS WENT
THROUGH. LISTEN AS TWO STAFFERS
RECALL WHAT THEY EXPERIENCED
THAT DAY.
&gt;&gt;
WE WERE SEEN ON TWITTER AND ON
OUR PHONES AND HEARING FROM SOME
OF THE POLICE OFFICERS ON THE
FLOOR THAT THE BUILDING HAD BEEN
BREACHED. BUILDING BREACHED WERE
TWO WORDS I HAD NEVER HEARD.
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS PARTICULARLY
STRESSFUL. BEING IN A ROOM THAT
WAS CLOSE TO WHERE THINGS WERE
HAPPENING AND NOT REALLY KNOWING
WHAT WAS HAPPENING. AND SEEING
IT COME IN LIVE AND GETTING
TEXTS FROM PEOPLE. YOU KNOW, ARE
YOU OKAY? TRUTHFULLY, I DIDN'T
KNOW WHAT WAS HAPPENING. I HEARD
SHOTS FIRED
, SHOTS FIRED, SHOW ME YOUR
HANDS, SHOW ME YOUR HANDS. THEN,
I DIDN'T KNOW IF THEY WERE RIGHT
OUTSIDE OR IF THEY WERE LOTS OF
PEOPLE WITH WEAPONS. IF THERE
WAS ONE SHOOTER OR
-- I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT IT LOOKED
LIKE. I JUST KNOW THAT SHOTS
WERE FIRED OUTSIDE OF THE HOUSE
CHAMBER.
&gt;&gt; ACCORDING TO REPORTS, ONE
REPUBLICAN SENATE STAFFER WHOSE
OFFICE WAS NOT FAR FROM THE
FLOOR, QUOTE, TOOK A STEEL ROD
AND BARRICADED HIS DOOR AS
WRITERS BANGED ON THE DOOR,
TRYING TO BREAK IN. THE NEW YORK
TIMES REPORTED A SENIOR BLACK
STAFFER WAS LOCKED DOWN DURING
SIX HOURS DURING THE
INSURRECTION AND WAS SO
DISTURBED ABOUT THESE EVENTS
THAT SHE QUIT HER JOB. ANOTHER
STAFFER WHO WAS ON THE FLOOR OF
THE HOUSE THAT DAY DESCRIBED
WHAT HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6 STILL
ECHOES IN HIS MIND. LISTEN TO
HIM DESCRIBE THE MOMENTS JUST
BEFORE THIS INDELIBLE IMAGE.
&gt;&gt; I HEARD GLASS BREAK AND I
COULD SEE THE WINDOWPANES ON THE
MAIN DOOR START TO POP.
I FIGURED THAT OBVIOUSLY THEY
WERE AT THE DOOR AND IT FIGURED
OUT A WAY TO BREAK THE GLASS.
THE LAST THING I REMEMBER,
BEFORE I WALKED OFF THE FLOOR,
WAS SEVERAL POLICE OFFICERS HAD
DRAWN THEIR GUNS AND HAD THEIR
GUNS TRAINED ON THE DOOR.
CLEARLY, I DIDN'T THINK THERE
WAS ANYTHING ELSE I COULD DO AND
I DIDN'T WANT TO BE THERE FOR
WHATEVER WAS ABOUT TO OCCUR. SO,
I GOT TO THE TOP OF THE STAIRS
AND THE STAIRWAY WAS PRETTY
PACKED
. AT THAT POINT, I DON'T KNOW IF
IT WAS A POLICE OFFICER OR
SOMEBODY ELSE WHO SAID, THEY ARE
RIGHT BEHIND US, RUN.
&gt;&gt; WHAT I THINK ABOUT AND THERE
IS IN A DAY THAT HASN'T GONE BY
SINCE JANUARY 6 THAT AT SOME
POINT I HAVEN'T GONE BACK AND
PICKED AT SOME LITTLE THING.
BUT, THE SOUND OF THOSE
WINDOWPANES POPPING. YOU KNOW, I
WON'T FORGET THAT SOUND.
&gt;&gt; I WON'T FORGET THAT SOUND.
HOW LONG WILL THE SOUND OF
WINDOWPANES BREAKING HOT THIS
STAFFER? HE IS NOT ALONE. THERE
ARE COUNTLESS PEOPLE LIVING WITH
THE TRAUMA OF WHAT HAPPENED THAT
DAY.  THIS INCLUDES, BY THE WAY,
ANOTHER GROUP OF PEOPLE WITH US
IN THE CAPITOL THAT DAY . THAT
IS THE PRESS. THEY WERE IN
DANGER, PARTICULARLY AFTER YEARS
OF BEING DERIDED BY PRESIDENT
TRUMP AS FAKE NEWS. KRISTEN
WILSON, REPORTER FOR CNN
, RECENTLY TWEETED ABOUT HER
EXPERIENCE. SHE SAID, I HAVE 14
PEOPLE ON MY TEAM AND WE WERE
SCATTERED EVERYWHERE. TWO OF
THEM WERE ON CRUTCHES AND COULD
NOT HAVE RUN IF THEY HAD TO. THE
HAD TO ANYWAY
. ONE WAS TRAPPED IN THE HOUSE
CHAMBER AND HAD TO CRAWL OUT TO
HIDE. FOUR OF US BARRICADED
OURSELVES IN A ROOM OFF THE
SENATE CHAMBER. EVERY BANG ON
THE DOOR OF THEM TRYING TO COME
THROUGH, I CAN STILL HEAR IN MY
HEAD.  THE JANITORIAL AND
CUSTODIAL STAFF AT THE CAPITOL ,
THE PEOPLE WHO DAY AFTER DAY
ATTEND TO OUR HOME AWAY FROM
HOME WERE ALSO TRAUMATIZED. WE
DON'T TALK ABOUT THEM AND THE
HARM THEY SUFFERED OFTEN ENOUGH
. ONE JANITORIAL WORKER
RECOUNTED THAT HE WAS SO SCARED
THAT HE HAD TO HIDE IN THE
CLOSET DURING THE ATTACK. HE
SAID, I WAS ALL BY MYSELF AND I
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT WAS GOING ON,".
ANOTHER EMPLOYEE, A MOTHER OF
THREE, SAID THE INSURRECTION
SHATTERED ALL MY A SENSE OF
SECURITY AT WORK
.  AN EMPLOYEE AT THE CAPITOL
SAID, I HOPE NOTHING ELSE
HAPPENS BECAUSE THESE PEOPLE
WERE TALKING ABOUT  KILLING US.
KILLING FEDERAL EMPLOYEES AND
KILLING POLICE
.
&gt;&gt; ANOTHER EMPLOYEE WAS AFRAID
TO WORK ON INAUGURATION DAY AND
SAID, I HONESTLY FEAR FOR MY
LIFE. I HAVE TWO CHILDREN AT
HOME."
.
&gt;&gt; FOR MANY OF THE BLACK AND
BROWN STAFF, THE TRAUMA WAS MADE
WORSE BY THE MANY PAINFUL
SYMBOLS OF HATE THAT WERE ON
FULL DISPLAY THAT DAY. THE
INSURRECTIONIST WAIVED
CONFEDERATE FLAGS AND HURLED
DISGUSTING RACIAL SLUR'S A
DEDICATED CAPITOL WORKERS .
THEN, AFTER ALL OF THAT, THE
SAME WORKERS, MANY OF THEM
PEOPLE OF COLOR, WERE FORCED TO
CLEAN UP THE MAST LEFT BY MOBS
OF WHITE NATIONALISTS. ONE
MEMBER OF THE JANITORIAL STAFF
EXPRESSED HOW TERRIBLE HE FELT
WHEN HE HAD TO CLEAN UP PCs THAT
HAD BEEN SMEARED ON THE WALL.
THE BLOOD OF A RIDER WHO HAD
DIED AND BROKEN GLASS AND OTHER
OBJECTS STREWN ALL OVER THE
FLOOR. HE SAID, I FELT BAD AND
DEGRADED.
LET'S ALSO NOT FORGET THAT THIS
VIOLENT ATTACK HAPPENED IN THE
MIDDLE OF A GLOBAL PANDEMIC
. SOCIAL DISTANCING WAS
IMPOSSIBLE BECAUSE WE WERE
HIDING FOR OUR LIVES IN CRAMPED
QUARTERS FOR LONG PERIODS OF
TIME
. SINCE JANUARY 6, AT LEAST
SEVEN MEMBERS WHO HID WITH OTHER
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS OF TESTED
POSITIVE FOR COVID-19. AT LEAST
38 CAPITOL POLICE OFFICERS HAVE
TESTED POSITIVE OR HAVE BEEN
EXPOSED. IN 200 NEARLY NATIONAL
GUARD TROOPS DEPLOYED TO THE
NATION'S CAPITOL PROVIDE ALL OF
US PROTECTION, HAVE TESTED
POSITIVE. THE CAPITOL POLICE AND
NATIONAL GUARD  CAME HERE TO
KEEP US SAFE AND TO SERVE. THEY
PUT THEIR LIVES IN DANGER AND
THEY DESERVE BETTER THAN THIS,
WE ALL DO. THAT BRINGS ME TO THE
NEXT ARM.
ALL OF US IN THIS ROOM MADE IT
OUT ALIVE, BUT NOT EVERYONE WAS
SO LUCKY. THREE LAW-ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS TRAGICALLY LOST THEIR
LIVES AS THE RESULT OF THE RIOT
ON JANUARY 6. THESE CAPITOL
POLICE OFFICERS
AND A METRO TURNED METROPOLITAN
POLICE OFFICER ALL WORK TO SERVE
AND DEFEND. AND MY COLLEAGUE
TOLD YOU ABOUT THE OFFICER WHO
IS A 42-YEAR-OLD MILITARY
VETERAN WHO DEDICATED HIS LIFE
TO PUBLIC SERVICE. ON JANUARY 6,
HE FOUGHT A MOB OF WRITERS AS
THEY STREAM TO THE CAPITOL AND
ULTIMATELY HE LOST HIS LIFE
PROTECTING US . ANOTHER OFFICER
A 15 YEAR VETERAN OF THE CAPITOL
POLICE THAT HIS FATHER WAS
SERGEANT  OF ARMS AT THE SENATE.
HE FATHER FOLLOWED HIS
EXTRAORDINARY EXAMPLE OF PUBLIC
SERVICE. OFFICER SMITH SERVED 12
YEARS WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT. AND HE STOOD WITH
THE CAPITOL POLICE TO HELP
SECURE OUR DEMOCRACY .
&gt;&gt; EARLIER, MY COLLEAGUE SHOWED
YOU VIDEOS OF THE POLICE
ABUSED AND INJURED.
PLUS YOU HEARD WHAT HAPPENED TO
THE OFFICERS FROM THE MPD. THERE
WERE SCORES OF OTHER OFFICERS,
WHO WE DON'T KNOW, WHO WERE
BRUTALIZED THAT DAY.
THE INJURIES INCLUDE
CONCUSSIONS, IRRITATED LUNGS,
SERIOUS INJURIES CAUSED BY
REPEATED BLOWS FROM BATS, POLLS,
AND CLUBS
.  THE CAPITOL POLICE OFFICERS
ALSO SUSTAINED INJURIES THAT
WILL BE WITH THEM  THE REST OF
THEIR LIVES.
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CAPITOL
POLICE OFFICERS UNION
HAVE SUSTAINED BRAIN INJURIES,
ONE OFFICER HAS TWO CRACKED
RIBS AND SMASHED SPINAL DISC.
ONE OFFICER IS GOING TO LOSE AS
I. ANOTHER WAS STABBED WITH A
METAL FENCE STEAK.
SPARKLY CITY ONE MEMBERS THE
CAPITOL POLICE AND 65 MEMBERS OF
THE METROPOLITAN POLICE
DEPARTMENT WORD INJURED DURING
THE ATTACK ON JANUARY 6. THE
FORMER CAPITAL POLICE CHIEF SON
DESCRIBES IT AS VIOLENT UNLIKE
ANYTHING HE HAD SEEN IN HIS 30
YEAR CAREER IN LAW ENFORCEMENT.
DC POLICE CHIEF HAD SPOKEN TO AN
OFFICER WHO HAD BEEN BEATEN AND
INJURED WITH A STUN GUN SAID
QUOTE, I HAVE TALKED WITH
OFFICERS WHO HAVE DONE TWO TOURS
IN IRAQ SAID THIS WAS SCARY TO
THEM AND THEIR TIME IN COMBAT.
&gt;&gt; THE PHYSICAL VIOLENCE IS NOT
THE ONLY THING THEY WILL HAVE A
LASTING EFFECT ON OUR BRAVE
OFFICERS.
TRUMPS MOB QUESTION THERE
LOYALTY, QUESTIONED THEIR
LOYALTY AND CALL THEM TRADER, ,
UN-AMERICAN FOR PROTECTING US.
I WRITER WEARING A HUNTING
JACKET A COSTS A POLICE OFFICER.
&gt;&gt; LISTEN TO HOW THE TRUMP MOB
SPOKE TO THESE OFFICERS.
YOU HEARD THAT WITH YOUR OWN
EARS.
&gt;&gt; EFFING TRADER. SO MUCH FOR
BACKING THE BLUE APPEARED HERE
ARE A COUPLE MORE EXAMPLES.
THEY CALLED LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS TRADERS TRAITORS. YOU
HAVE TO WONDER WHO THESE RIDERS
ARE SWORN TO, WHO DO THEY
BELIEVE THE POLICE OWE THEIR
LOYALTY, THE PEOPLE OR
CONSTITUTION OR DEMOCRACY OR TO
DONALD TRUMP?
EVEN THOSE WHO ARE NOT OUTWARDLY
INJURED, THE MENTAL TOLL HAS
BEEN SIGNIFICANT.
SEVERAL CAPITAL POLICE OFFICERS
HAVE REPORTEDLY THREATENED
SELF-HARM IN THE DAYS FOLLOWING
THE RIGHT.
IN ONE CASE AN OFFICER TURNED IN
HER GUN BECAUSE SHE WAS AFRAID
OF WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN. BLACK
POLICE OFFICERS WERE MET WITH
BRACES VITRIOL. YOU HEARD REP.
JAMIE RASKIN, REFERENCES A
BLACK POLICE OFFICER, WEARY FROM
RACIALIZED VIOLENCE, TEARS JUST
STARTED STREAMING DOWN MY FACE,
I SAID WHAT IS THIS, IS THIS
AMERICA?
IS THIS AMERICA? WHAT IS YOUR
ANSWER TO THE QUESTION, IS THIS
OKAY? IF NOT, WHAT ARE WE GOING
TO DO ABOUT APPEARED THESE
PEOPLE MATTER. THESE PEOPLE
RISKED THEIR LIVES FOR US. SO I
ASK YOU RESPECTFULLY TO CONSIDER
THEM, THE POLICE OFFICERS, THE
STAFF OF THIS BUILDING WHEN YOU
CAST YOUR VOTE. THESE PEOPLE ARE
IN DEEP PAIN BECAUSE A SHORT
APPEAR TO SERVE THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE AND SERVE THEIR
GOVERNMENT AND SERVE ALL OF US.
CAST YOUR VOTE AND WE HONOR THEM
AND REMEMBER THEM AND ACT IN
SERVICE OF THEM AS THEY DESERVE.
I ALSO WANT TO RECOGNIZE THE FOR
INSURRECTIONIST WHO ALSO LOST
THEIR LIVES DURING THE ATTACK.
THESE PEOPLE WERE LED HERE BY
THE WORDS AND ACTIONS OF AN
INDIVIDUAL WHO MADE THEM BELIEVE
THAT THEY WERE PATRIOTS.
THE LOSS OF HUMAN LIFE IS OF
COURSE THE MOST CONSEQUENTIAL.
BUT THAT WAS NOT THE ONLY DAMAGE
BROUGHT THAT DAY. THE TRUMP MOB
ALSO DAMAGED THIS BUILDING. THEY
DEFILED SOME OF THE MOST SACRED
PLACES, STATUARY HALL, THE
ROTUNDA, SOME OF THE AMERICA'S
GREATEST
CHAMPIONS, CIVIL RIGHTS HEROES
AND OTHER DEFENDERS WERE HONORED
AFTER THEIR DEATH. TRUMPS A
VIOLENT MOB HAD LITTLE RESPECT
FOR THIS PLACE. THIS VIDEO SHOWS
THE WRECKAGE LEFT IN THE SENATE
PARLIAMENTARIAN'S OFFICE BY THE
INSURRECTIONIST.
&gt;&gt; A BUST OF PRESIDENT ZACHARY
TAYLOR WAS SMEARED WITH WHAT
APPEARED TO BE BLOOD. AN EMPTY
PICTURE FRAME ROBBED OF ITS
CONTENTS WAS FOUND ON THE FLOOR.
IT IS OF THE INSURRECTION
CAPTURED ONE MAN STEALING A
FRAMED PHOTO AND ANOTHER ONE
TEARING A SCROLL FROM THE WALL
AND RIPPING IT UP AND THROWING
THOSE PIECES ON THE FLOOR.
ASSIGN PAYING TRIBUTE TO
JOHN LEWIS WAS ALSO SHAMEFULLY
DESTROYED AND ONLY A BROKEN
PIECE OF THE MEMORIAL WAS FOUND
ON THE GROUND NEXT TO A TRASH
CAN. THE PHOTO OF MR. LEWIS WAS
GONE. THE DAMAGE DONE TO THIS
BUILDING IS A STAIN ON ALL OF US
AND ON THE DIGNITY OF OUR
DEMOCRACY. THE ATTACK WE SAW HAD
A PURPOSE, STOP THE
CERTIFICATION, STOP THE
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. FORTUNATELY
THEY DID NOT PREVAIL. NEWSPAPERS
ACROSS AMERICA, JANUARY 21, THE
DAY AFTER THE INAUGURATION,
PROCLAIMED DEMOCRACY HAS
PREVAILED.
PRESIDENT BIDEN SAID THAT IN HIS
INAUGURATION SPEECH. THE
HEADLINE WAS IN SO MANY PLACES
BECAUSE THE WORLD'S OLDEST
CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE
PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING IT HAD
BEEN ATTACKED AND CHALLENGED.
THIS WASN'T JUST AN ATTACK ON
THE CAPITOL BUILDING
, THE DEDICATED PEOPLE INSIDE,
IT WAS AN ATTACK ON WHAT WE WERE
ELECTED TO PRESERVE, OUR
DEMOCRACY. THIS ATTACK ON OUR
ELECTIONS, THE PEACEFUL TRANSFER
OF POWER FROM ONE PRESIDENT TO
THE NEXT DIDN'T EVEN HAPPEN
DURING THE CIVIL WAR. BUT IT DID
JUST HAPPEN. BECAUSE OF THE COLD
, CALCULATED AND CONSPIRATORIAL
ACCESS FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP.
WE SHOW THE INSURRECTIONIST WERE
DELIBERATE THEY CAME LOOKING FOR
THE VICE PRESIDENT AND SPEAKER
PELOSI, READY TO KILL.
FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
INCITED A LAWLESS MOB, HE WAS
ATTACKING OUR DEMOCRACY. HE WAS
TRYING TO BECOME KING AND RULE
OVER US AGAINST THE WILL OF THE
PEOPLE AND THE VALID RESULTS OF
THE ELECTION. FOR THE FIRST TIME
EVER IN OUR HISTORY A SITTING
PRESIDENT ACTIVELY INSTIGATED
HIS SUPPORTERS TO VIOLENTLY
DISRUPT THE PROCESS THE PROVIDES
FOR THE PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF
POWER FROM ONE PRESIDENT TO THE
NEXT. THINK ABOUT THAT FOR A
MOMENT. WHAT IF
TRUMP HAD BEEN SUCCESSFUL? WHAT
IF HE HAD SUCCEEDED IN
OVERTURNING THE WILL OF OUR
PEOPLE AND CONSTITUTIONAL
PROCESSES. WHO AMONG US IS
WILLING TO RISK THAT OUTCOME
BY LETTING TRUMPS CONSTITUTIONAL
CRIMES GO UNANSWERED.
WE HAVE TO PREVENT EVERY
PRESIDENT, TODAY, TOMORROW, OR
ANYTIME IN THE FUTURE FROM
BELIEVING THAT THIS CONDUCT IS
ACCEPTABLE. TODAY WE HAVE TO
STAND UP FOR OUR DEMOCRACY AND
ENSURE WE REMAIN A COUNTRY
GOVERNED BY THE PEOPLE, FOR THE
PEOPLE BY TELLING
FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
AND PEOPLE ALL ACROSS THIS
COUNTRY AND ALL ACROSS THE WORLD
THAT HIS CRIMES WILL NOT AND
CANNOT STAND.
&gt;&gt; I ASK
UNANIMOUS CONSENT THE HOUSE
STAND IN RECESS FOR 15 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt;
NO OBJECTIONS, THE SENATE WILL
STAND IN RECESS.
&gt;&gt;&gt; WITH THAT GAVEL WE ARE NOW
ON A BREAK WITH THE DAY DESIGNED
BY THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS TO PUT THE FOCUS
SQUARELY ON TRUMP. ALSO WITH A
FOCUS ON THE PEOPLE WHO THEY ARE
PAINTING AND SHOWING AS THE
VICTIMS OF THE ATTACK AS WELL AS
OTHER DANGEROUS EPISODES THAT
LED UP TO APPEARED THERE IS
MINORITY LEADER MITCH McCONNELL,
LET'S GO TO JAMES, CALM THIS
WITH THE WASHINGTON POST. I WANT
TO START WHERE WE LEFT OFF. THIS
ILLUSTRATION BY
REP. DAVID CICILLINE OF THE
PEOPLE THAT WORK AT THE CAPITAL,
INCLUDING THE JANITORIAL STAFF
AND THE POLICE AND THE ABUSE OF
THE POLICE SUFFERED BOTH VERBAL
AND PHYSICAL AT THE HANDS OF
THAT MOB, LET'S START THERE,
JAMES.
&gt;&gt; IS A TEMPLE OF DEMOCRACY BUT
IT'S ALSO A WORK PACE
WORKPLACE. SOME 10,000 PEOPLE
WORK THERE. IT IS COMPLICATED, A
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE WORKING HOME
BECAUSE OF THE PANDEMIC. THIS
WAS A TREAT DEEPLY TRAUMATIZING
EVENT AND A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE
SCARED FOR THEIR LIVES. WE HEARD
ABOUT THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
POLICE OFFICERS WHO WERE BEING
CALLED RACIAL EPITHETS AND HAD
TO HOLD IT TOGETHER AS THEY WERE
HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT AND WEREN'T
ABLE TO RELEASE UNTIL THEY WERE
IN A SAFE PLACE LATER. WE HEARD
FROM PEOPLE WHO
SAID THEIR SENSE OF SECURITY WAS
SHATTERED. PEOPLE DIDN'T WANT TO
COME TO WORK ON THE DAY OF THE
INAUGURATION BECAUSE THEY WERE
AFRAID IT WOULDN'T BE SAFE.
THAT WAS THE CRESCENDO OF TWO
SOLID HOURS, LAYING OUT HOW THIS
WAS NOT AN ABERRATION. WE HEARD
THE BEGINNING FROM REP. JAMIE
RASKIN THERE'S REALLY A SIX-YEAR
TRACK  RECORD OF TRUMP GIVING
WINKS AND NODS OF VIOLENCE OR
CREATING IT AFTER-THE-FACT.
USE THE SIEGE OF THE MICHIGAN
STATE CAPITAL LAST SPRING ON THE
PLOT AGAINST THE DEMOCRATIC
GOVERNOR, HE CALLED IT A DRESS
REHEARSAL FOR WHAT HAPPENED ON
JANUARY 6. HE PRAISED
A PERSON THAT ASSAULTED A
REPORTER. SAID THERE WERE THE
GOOD PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES IN
CHARLOTTESVILLE. THIS WAS IN
SOME ISOLATED INCIDENT I THINK
IS THE CORE TAKE AWAY FROM THE
LAST TWO HOURS.
&gt;&gt; LET'S PLAY AN EXAMPLE OF
THAT. THIS IS FROM
REP. JAMIE RASKIN, LEAD HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER APPEARED  HE
MADE THE CASE THAT TRUMP AD
ALONG LONG ESTABLISHED PATTERN
OF INCITING VIOLENCE.
&gt;&gt;
THESE TACTICS WERE ROAD TESTED.
JANUARY 6 WAS A CULMINATION OF
THE PRESIDENT'S ACTIONS. NOT AN
ABERRATION FROM THEM. THE
INSURRECTION WAS THE MOST
VIOLENT AND DANGEROUS EPISODE SO
FAR IN TRUMPS CONTINUING PATTERN
AND PRACTICE OF INCITING BIKES
VIOLENCE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO RHONDA, YOU CAN
HEAR THE CONGRESSMAN PUT NOT
JUST JANUARY 6 ON THE CONSCIENCE
OF THE SENATE BUT ANYTHING THAT
CAN HAPPEN IN THE FUTURE IF THEY
DO NOT ACT. WHAT POSITION DOES
IS PUT THE SENATORS IN?
&gt;&gt; RIGHT, REP. JAMIE RASKIN SAID
IN A CLIP , SO FAR. HE
THIS COULD HAPPEN AGAIN. HE IS
INDICATING, IF THEY DON'T ACT
NOW YOU CAN CERTAINLY HAPPEN
AGAIN. HE ALSO LATER ON PLAYED A
CLIP FOR I BELIEVE IT WAS REP.
DAVID CICILLINE  WHO SAID AFTER
THE CHARLOTTESVILLE INCIDENT
WHERE HER DAUGHTER WAS KILLED
THIS COULD HAPPEN AGAIN. SO THAT
WAS NEARLY PROPHETIC WHEN YOU
WATCH IT THROUGH THE LENS ON
KNOWING WHAT HAPPENED ON JANUARY
6. THIS IS A PART OF THE
STRATEGY VERY THEY REMIND
SENATORS THAT THIS HAPPENED TO
THEM.
IF THEY DON'T ACT NOW THIS IS A
LIKELIHOOD THIS COULD HAPPEN
AGAIN. HE SPENT THE FIRST
PORTION OF THE DAY GOING THROUGH
EARLY TRUMP EVENTS
DURING THE PRIMARY SEASON BACK
IN 2015 WHEN HE WAS FIRST ON THE
SCENE AS A CANDIDATE FOR
PRESIDENT WHERE HE WOULD NOT
DECRY ANY OF THE VIOLENT ATTACKS
AND ASSAULTS THAT HAPPENED AT
HIS OWN RALLIES AND INSTEAD
ENCOURAGED HIS PEOPLE TO FIGHT.
REP. JAMIE RASKIN AND THE OTHER
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE
ESTABLISHING THAT THIS IS PART
OF AMO AND IT IS CHARACTERISTIC
OF FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
TO SAY THINGS ABOUT HURTING
PEOPLE WHO ARE AGAINST ANY OF
HIS WISHES OUR THOUGHTS AND TO
DO HARM TO THEM IN HIS
SUPPORTERS WILL PICK UP ON THAT
AND ACTUALLY DO HARM. THAT WAS A
KEY PART OF THIS FIRST HALF
TODAY
, NOT ONLY THE THINGS THAT LED
UP TO JANUARY 6 BE SHOWING
THROUGHOUT THE LAST FIVE YEARS
THIS IS BEEN PART OF A BIGGER
CULTURE ASSOCIATED WITH DONALD
TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, TO GIVE IT FROM
THERE. WE HEARD
REP. DIANA DEGETTE SAYING THAT
THIS PROCESS IS NOT TO PUNISH
BUT TO PREVENT.  SHE DID TALK
ABOUT CHARLOTTESVILLE AND THE
ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL ON JANUARY
6 AS SEEMINGLY UNFATHOMABLE
UNTIL THEY HAPPEN. US LIKE THAT
IDEA OF HAVING A LACK OF
IMAGINATION TO PICTURE THESE
THINGS HAPPENING. SO TURN YOUR
GAZE INTO THE FUTURE AND WHAT
RESPONSIBILITY IS PLACED ON THIS
JURY TODAY?
&gt;&gt; THAT IS RIGHT, THAT IS ALSO
SOMETHING THEY HOPE WILL APPEAL
TO SENATORS WHO MAY FEEL LIKE
THEY HAVE A HARD TIME
POLITICALLY MAKING THIS DECISION
WHETHER TO CONVICT OR ACQUIT
, IF ANYTHING THIS IS NOT
PARTISAN. THIS IS FROM
PREVENTING HARM FROM HAPPENING
AGAIN, NOT ONLY IF HE WAS TO RUN
AND WIN AN ELECTION LATER ON BUT
ANYBODY ELSE WHO MAY BE
CONSIDERING TO HAVE A SIMILAR
CANDIDACY YOUR PRESIDENCY WHERE
THEY CAN CALL SUPPORTERS TO
ATTACK AND THEY DO. THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT IS A WAY TO
APPEAL AND TAKE THE POLITICS OUT
OF THIS DECISION. THIS IS ABOUT
PROTECTING THE DEMOCRACY IN THE
FUTURE. THEY ARE ALSO LETTING
PEOPLE KNOW IF YOU LET HIM OFF
THE HOOK FOR THIS YOU ARE
LETTING THE RIOTERS OFF THE HOOK
AS WELL. THEY WILL SEE THIS AS A
VICTORY FOR DONALD TRUMP AND BE
EMBOLDENED NOT ONLY DO THIS
AGAIN IN DC BUT LOCALLY WHERE
THEY LIVE, THEIR STATE CAPITALS
OR PLACES OF LOCAL LEGISLATURE
THAT THEY WILL KEEP DOING THIS
IF THEY DON'T SEE IT AS AN
ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURE IF HE IS
IMPEACHED AND CONVICTED THROUGH
THIS TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; THE FOLLOW FROM JANUARY 6
EXTENDS FAR BEYOND THE CAPITAL
COMPOUND. SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORMS
HAVE BEEN FORCED TO RECKON WITH
THEIR ROLE IN RADICALIZING THE
RIOTERS. OUR NATIONAL REPORTER
HAS MORE.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ARE ARGUING TODAY,
INVITED THE FOLLOWERS TO STORM
THE CAPITAL. THAT INVITATION
CAME OVER THE PRESIDENT SOCIAL
MEDIA ACCOUNTS. WE HEARD AGAIN
TODAY FROM REP. DIANA DEGETTE
WHO LAID OUT THE RIOTERS AND THE
SUPPORTERS ECHOED THE LANGUAGE
ON SOCIAL MEDIA. AND PEOPLE
SHARED LIVE STREAMS OF THE
ATTACK ON THE SUM WHICH IS BEING
USED AS EVIDENCE AGAINST
APPEARANCE OF SOCIAL MEDIA IS
INSEPARABLE FROM THIS ATTACK ON
THIS TRIAL. ONE OF THE PLATFORMS
MENTIONED TODAY, QUITE A FEW
TIMES IS A  PARLERPLATFORM,
MENTIONS CIVIL WAR,
QUADRUPLES AFTER TRUMP SAID ON
HIS SPEECH AFTER THE RIGHT WAS
KICKING OFF THAT HIS SUPPORTERS
SHOULD SHOW STRENGTH. THEY
STREAMED THEIR ATTACK ON PARLER
AND CONTINUE TO USE THE PLATFORM
TO CALL FOR FURTHER VIOLENCE.
THEY HAVE TO FACE THEIR
CONSEQUENCES FOR THIS ROLE IN
THE ATTACK. THERE IS CALL TO
ACTION ON JANUARY 6. READERS OF
FAR RIGHT GROUPS. IN THE WAKE OF
THE ATTACK. THE APPLE APP STORE
THEY REMOVE THE PLATFORM FROM
ITS OFFERINGS AND WHEN AMAZON
STOPPED HOSTING IT WAS
EFFECTIVELY SHUTTERED. THERE'S A
FEW CONSERVATIVE CELEBRITIES
PLEDGED TO RETURN, QUOTES IS ON
THE PAGE RIGHT NOW, WE WON'T LET
CIVIL DISCOURSE PARISH
THEY ARE STILL TRYING TO GET
BACK ONLINE. IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT
TO REMEMBER, THEY ONLY HAD A
FRACTION OF THE DAILY USERS OF
FACEBOOK AND TWITTER GETS.
TWITTER HAS ABOUT 350 MILLION
USERS PER MONTH AND FACEBOOK HAS
BILLIONS WELL PARLER HAS ABOUT
15 MILLION  TOTAL USERS AND 2
MILLION ACTIVE USERS.
BARILLA TO UNDERSTAND THE ROLE
OF SOCIAL MEDIA
IN THE CAPITAL ATTACK WE HAVE TO
LOOK BACK OVER YEARS OF TRUMP'S
STATEMENTS ON TWITTER AND
ELSEWHERE AS IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS HAVE DONE TODAY. SOME
OF THE MOST UNDENIABLE EVIDENCE
THEY HAVE SEEN TODAY SHOWING HIS
LACK OF REMORSE OVER THE ATTACKS
COME FROM TWITTER WHICH FOR SO
MANY YEARS OF GIVEN US A DIRECT
LINE TO THE FORMER PRESIDENTS
THINKING. SOMETHING THAT HAS
BEEN MISSING IS THE REAL-TIME
REACTION FROM TRUMP.
SINCE TWITTER HAS SUSPENDED HIS
ACCOUNT WE NO LONGER HEAR FROM
HIM. FACE BACK FACEBOOK IS ALSO
SUSPENDED HIS
ACCOUNT AND HAS AN INDEPENDENT
OVERSIGHT BOARD WHETHER TO
DECIDE TO LET HIM BACK.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, AS THE
MANAGERS JOB HERE IS TO HAVE
DONALD TRUMP ON TRIAL, HOW DO
THEY HAVE TO THINK ABOUT THE
LEGAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
OTHER PARTIES? SOCIAL MEDIA
COMPANIES, THE ACTUAL ATTACKERS
OF THE CAPITAL? THERE WERE
MOMENTS WHERE REP. DIANA DEGETTE
WAS
RELIEVING SOME OF THE BURDEN OFF
OF PEOPLE WHO WENT TO WASHINGTON
TO RALLY AROUND PRESIDENT TRUMP
SHE TALKED ABOUT THEM FOLLOWING
THE CALL THAT THEIR PRESIDENT
ISSUED. I'M WONDERING WHAT THAT
MIGHT THEN MEAN FOR LEGAL CASES,
ETC.?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: IT WILL CERTAINLY
BE ADMISSIBLE. WE ARE SEEING THE
TRUMP DEFENSE BEING TROTTED OUT
BY SOME DEFENSE ATTORNEYS.  REP.
DIANA DEGETTE CITED ONE OF THE
LAWYERS FILINGS IN WHICH THEY
SAID  THIS PERSON THOUGHT THEY
WERE BEING DIRECTED TO DO THIS
BY THEIR COMMANDER IN CHIEF.
ULTIMATELY SHE DID HAVE A LINE
SAYING I'M NOT CONDONING WHAT
THEY DID AND THEY COMMITTED
CRIMES BUT THEY DID SO AT
TRUMP'S DIRECTION. THIS FOLLOWS
WHAT WE SAW YESTERDAY. THE
CONDOS ALMOST PRESENTED
WHAT THEY CALL, MARAUDERS,
PEOPLE WHO WERE DUPED BY TRUMP,
PEOPLE WHO DIDN'T KNOW BETTER,
THESE PEOPLE WERE LIED TO BY
TRUMP. TODAY IN HER PRESENTATION
SHE CITED A LOT OF THREAT
ASSESSMENTS FROM THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY,
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
FBI ABOUT HOW THESE DOMESTIC AND
VIOLENT EXTREMISTS,
THEY SAID THE WHOLE JANUARY 6
EPISODE HAS BEEN A BOON FOR
RECRUITMENT TO BRING IN MORE
PEOPLE TO THEIR CAUSE WHEN SHE
CITED A LOT OF PEOPLE SAYING, WE
ARE WAITING ON INSTRUCTIONS FROM
TRUMP ABOUT WHAT TO DO NEXT. TO
TIE TRUMPED ALL OF THIS CRIMINAL
ACTIVITY. ULTIMATELY HE IS THE
ONE ON TRIAL AND THEY HAVE BEEN
PRETTY CAREFUL NOT TO SUGGEST
THAT REPUBLICANS ARE ACCOMPLICES
OR THE TECH COMPANIES BEAR
LIABILITY. IT IS INTERESTING,
REP. DAVID CICILLINE IS THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE ON  ANTITRUST. HE'S
THE LEADING DEMOCRATIC CRITICAL
OF
TECH BIG TECH AND SOCIAL MEDIA
COMPANIES IN THE HOUSE BUT THIS
IS JUST NOT PART OF THE
PRESENTATION BECAUSE IT IS
DONALD TRUMP ON TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; LET'S LOOK AT SOME OF REP.
DAVID CICILLINE'S PRESENTATION
FROM TODAY.  HE TOOK TIME TO
SHOW THE DAMAGE AND ATTACKS IN
THE VIOLENCE SUSTAINED BY
CAPITOL POLICE AND ASKED WHERE
WAS THE SUPPORT FOR LAW AND
ORDER? AT ONE POINT HE
COMMENTED, SO MUCH FOR BACK THE
BLUE WHICH IS SUPPORTING BLUE,
POLICE OFFICERS. LET'S LISTEN
HIM DRIVE HOME THE FACT THAT THE
MOB WAS NOT SUPPORTING WHAT
REPUBLICANS HAVE SAID IS THEIR
POLITICAL AGENDA. LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt;
THEY CALLED LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS TRAITORS. YOU HAVE TO
WONDER, WHO HAVE THESE RIOTERS
SWORN TO
? TO WHOM DO THEY BELIEVE THEY
OWE THEIR LOYALTY? TO THE
PEOPLE, THE CONSTITUTION, TO OUR
DEMOCRACY? OR TO DONALD TRUMP?
&gt;&gt;
RHONDA, WE KNEW THE TESTIMONY
AND VIDEO WOULD BE HARD TO BE
WITNESS TO WE
KNEW THEY WOULD SHOW HOW TRULY
DANGEROUS THE SITUATION WAS FOR
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND STAFFERS
BUT TODAY WAS ALSO VERY
DISTURBING TO SEE SUCH ANGER AND
VITRIOL AND PHYSICAL ATTACKS
AIMED AT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: THAT'S RIGHT,
IMAGINE THE TRAUMA THAT MANY
LAW-ENFORCEMENT WORKERS  HERE ON
THE HILL FELT BECAUSE THEY ARE
BEING TOLD THEY ARE TRAITORS AND
VERY AWARE THEY WILL BE
OVERWHELMED. I GO BACK TO MY
EXPERIENCES ON JANUARY 6 AND A
REMEMBER WHEN WE ARE EVACUATED,
AS STAFFERS SAID, SHE JUST
LOOKED OUTSIDE AND I THINK THE
CAPITOL POLICE
HAVE YOU ALL IN THE BASEMENT
BECAUSE THEY KNOW THEY CAN'T
PROTECT EVERYONE TODAY THEY ARE
BEING OVERRUN. SHE HAS SO MUCH
FEAR IN HER EYES, SAYING THAT
EVENTUALLY THIS MOB IS GOING TO
GET IN AND DO HARM AND IS JUST A
MATTER OF TIME. SO WE ARE
ABLE TO SEE THIS VIDEO HOW THE
OFFICERS ARE TREATED AND OVERRUN
AND COULD NOT GO UP AGAINST THIS
MOB EVENTUALLY AND I DID THAT
ALL THEY COULD WHEN WE KNOW THE
MOB USE SOME OF THEIR GEAR AND
THEIR OFFICERS THERE ARE FINDING
OUT THEY HAD HAIRSPRAY AND MASON
OTHER THINGS TO FIGHT THEIR WAY
IN. SO THE CAPITOL POLICE IN THE
DAYS IMMEDIATELY AFTER, LAP OF
INSECURITY ABOUT THE CAPITAL AND
THE OFFICERS WEREN'T PREPARED.
ALSO SEEN WHAT THEY WERE UP
AGAINST, INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
MORE HIGHLY CHOREOGRAPHED AND
PLANNED THAN WE INITIALLY
THOUGHT.
&gt;&gt; LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT WE KNOW
HOW SENATORS ARE INTERPRETING
THIS BUT CONSUMING LITERALLY
TAKING ON THIS INFORMATION. WE
DO HEAR FROM THE POOL THAT
SENATOR RICK SCOTT, REPUBLICAN
OF FLORIDA HAS NOT BEEN WATCHING
THE VIDEOS AND INSTEAD HAS BEEN
LOOKING DOWN AT A BLANK MAP OF
ASIA WHICH HE APPEARS TO BE
FILLING IN. WHICH I REMEMBER
DOING THAT IN THE EIGHTH GRADE
BECAUSE I WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
DOING IT. WHAT IS GOING ON?
&gt;&gt; HE IS ONE OF THE SEVEN
SENATORS WHO VOTED TO OVERTURN
THE ELECTION. HE HAS BEEN ONE OF
THE MOST OUTSPOKEN. HE SAID THIS
IS A TOTAL WASTE OF TIME EVEN
IMMEDIATELY, WATCHING THOSE
VIDEOS WHICH A LOT OF PEOPLE
THOUGHT WAS KIND OF INSENSITIVE,
HE CALLED INTO MULTIPLE TALK
RADIO AND SAID THIS IS A SHAM.
HE SOME OF THE WANTS TO RUN FOR
PRESIDENT. I THINK HE'S TRYING
TO GET AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE IN
THE TRUMP LANE, HE SHARES THE
SAME POLITICAL AND STRATEGISTS
AS JOSH HAWLEY. I THINK SOME OF
IT IS A SHOW.
THIS IS TAKING A TOLL, SITTING
AND WATCHING ALL OF THIS IS
TIRING FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT
USED TO
SITTING FOR SO LONG. BECAUSE A
SOCIAL DISTANCING THEY ARE
ALLOWED TO BE IN THE CLOAKROOM
OR THE CHAMBER APPEARED SOME
HAVE GONE IN THERE WE HAVEN'T
SEEN, SOME HAVE BEEN SPOTTED,
MAKING CELL PHONE CALLS IN THE
BASEMENT RIGHT UNDERNEATH THE
SENATE CHAMBER.
SUMMER SITTING UP IN THE GALLERY
WHICH WOULD NORMALLY BE RESERVED
FOR PARTICIPANTS, THAT'S WHERE
JOSH HAWLEY WAS YESTERDAY,
SPREADING OUT
AND READING PAPERS THAT HIS
STAFFERS CLAIM WAS TRIAL BRIEFS
FOR THIS TRIAL.
REPUBLICANS AREN'T ABLE TO
RESPOND OR OBJECT, WE SAW THAT
MOMENT FROM MIKE LEE LAST NIGHT
AND THEY DO WANT TO LOOK AWAY. I
HAVE MENTIONED THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT CHALLENGERS HAVE
SAID
BEEN CAREFUL NOT NOT TO SAY
REPUBLICANS ALL ON TRIAL BUT IT
IS A CLEAR SUBTEXT OF THE CASE.
THE WHOLE IDEA THAT THIS IS
GOING TO HAPPEN AGAIN WHICH IS A
CENTRAL ARGUMENT, THE TRUMP
DIDN'T SHOW ANY REMORSE. JANUARY
6 WAS A WORSE EPISODE OF
VIOLENCE SO FAR ACCORDING TO
REP. JAMIE RASKIN.  REP. TED
LIEU SAID  TRUMP'S TOTAL LACK OF
REMORSE IS GOING TO MEAN IT
COULD HAPPEN AGAIN IF HE'S NOT
CONVICTED. THE SUBTEXT OF THOSE
KINDS OF COMMENTS IS THAT
REPUBLICANS WILL BE TO BLAME IF
THEY VOTE TO ACQUIT TRUMP HERE
AND THERE IS MORE MOB VIOLENCE
IN THE FUTURE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO POLITICAL
REPORTER JOYCE.
&gt;&gt; WHAT STRUCK ME SO FAR HOW
MUCH BROADER THE GUN WITH THEIR
ARGUMENTS. THEY ARE NOT JUST
TALKING ABOUT THE U.S. CAPITAL.
THEY ARE GOING DOWN THERE,
TALKING ABOUT THE STATE
CAPITALS, REP. DIANA DEGETTE
TALKED ABOUT THE 21 STATES HOW
TO DEPLOY NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS
BECAUSE
THERE WAS POTENTIAL ATTACKS
THREATENING THE STATE CAPITAL.
SHE ALSO TALKED ABOUT THESE FOUR
STATES, WASHINGTON, ILLINOIS,
MICHIGAN, GEORGIA AND WASHINGTON
DC PROMPTING MASSIVE DEPLOYMENT.
BECAUSE OF THE THREAT. THERE WAS
A SON AT
RUNOFF IN GEORGIA WE ARE AT THE
STATE CAPITOL IN GEORGIA WHERE
WE WERE PREPARING TO DO A LIVE
SHOT IN THE GRIP OF TRUMP
SUPPORTERS HAD GATHERED AROUND
US IN THIS PARKING LOT, PREPARED
TO GO UP TO THE GEORGIA STATE
CAPITAL AND CONFRONT THE
REPUBLICAN SECRETARY OF STATE
THERE BECAUSE THEY SAID
THAT THE ELECTION WAS A SHAM AND
THAT IS DIRECTLY REFLECTIVE OF
TRUMP'S RHETORIC AROUND THAT
TIME, FALSELY CLAIMING THE
ELECTION WAS RIGGED. TALKING TO
MEMBERS OF TRUMP SUPPORTERS IN
THAT LOT THAT THEY WHO SAID THEY
WERE INSTRUCTED TO GO TO THE
STATE CAPITALS IF THEY COULDN'T
MAKE IT TO WASHINGTON DC FOR HIS
TRUMP RALLY. THERE WAS ALSO A
FORMER MEMBER OF THE  MADE SOME
HEADLINES BECAUSE HE ACTUALLY
WENT UP TO THE SECRETARY OF
STATE'S OFFICE TO PRESENT HIS
THOUGHTS ON THIS AND IT JUST
REALLY ILLUSTRATES HOW BROAD
THIS REALLY WAS. IT WASN'T JUST
ABOUT THE ATTACK ON THE U.S.
CAPITAL WHICH WAS HORRIFYING AND
DEADLY BUT HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ARE DRIVING HOME THIS
POINT THAT THE STRETCHES BEYOND.
AS REP. JAMIE RASKIN SAID,
IF WE LET TRUMP GET AWAY WITH IT
AND THEN COME TO YOUR STATE
CAPITAL LAURA FOR COMES BACK
HERE AGAIN, WHAT ARE WE GOING TO
SAY? REALLY OFFERING THIS
QUESTION THAT THE THREAT
STRETCHES BEYOND JUST THIS EVENT
ON JANUARY 6 THAT THEY ARE
LOOKING AT THAT IT REALLY
EXTENDS TO THE STATE CAPITALS IN
THE THREAT HASN'T DISAPPEARED.
&gt;&gt; JAMES,
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS CASTING
THE NET TO WIDE? THESE ARE ALL
OF THE EPISODES THEY HAVE
DESCRIBED, CONFEDERATE FLAGS AT
THE MICHIGAN STATE CAPITAL ARE
TERRIBLE BUT THEY NEED TO MAKE
THE LINK BETWEEN ALL OF THESE
THINGS THAN TRUMP AND HIS STATE
OF MIND AND HIS INTENTION ON
JANUARY 6.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY, THERE IS SOME
RISK THERE WITH DEBATE YOU
IS CALLED THE SPREAD YOU PUT A
BUNCH OF STUFF OUT THERE AND SEE
WHAT PEOPLE RESPOND TO. BUT THE
CONVERSE CAN BE TRUE.
WHEN YOU THROW A BUNCH OF STUFF
OUT THERE THE DEFENSE TEAM CAN
PICK ON THE WEAKEST PART OF WHAT
YOU THROUGHOUT THERE AND SAY IT
IS PREPOSTEROUS TO CONNECT THEM
TO THE PLOT TO KILL GRETCHEN
WHITMER, THAT'S TOO MUCH OF A
STRETCH AND THE FACT THAT THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS DID
SO COULD HURT THEIR CASE. I
THOUGHT
REP. JAMIE RASKIN WORKED REALLY
HARD TO TRY AND MAKE THAT
LINKAGE , THAT CLIP ESPECIALLY
FROM THE RALLY THE TRUMP AD IN
MUSKEGON, CALLED A WINK AND A
NOD.
HE SAID I'M NOT GOING TO SAY
LOCK HER UP BUT THEN THEY WILL
SAY I WAS ENCOURAGING YOU BUT
YOU GET THE PICTURE,
REP. JAMIE RASKIN TRY TO ADDRESS
THAT SO DIDN'T SEEM LIKE THEY
WERE JUST THROWING A LOT OF
STUFF OUT THERE,  THROWING THE
KITCHEN SINK TO SEE WHAT STUCK.
I'M SURPRISED THEY HAVEN'T
TALKED MORE ABOUT GEORGIA
, OBVIOUSLY THERE IS AN ONGOING
OPEN CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION INTO
TRUMP'S EFFORTS
TO GET ELECTION OFFICIALS, IN
HIS WORDS, FIND JUST ONE MORE
VOTE TO BE DECLARED THE VICTOR
IN GEORGIA. SUCH AS CALLING THE
SECRETARY OF STATE BUT DEPUTIES
IN THE OFFICE, OUSTING THE U.S.
ATTORNEY WHO WOULDN'T CLAIM THAT
THERE WAS FRAUD, REPLACING HIM
WITH SOMEONE WHO WAS MORE
PLIABLE. THAT SEEMS VERY
RELEVANT TO THE CHARGE AT HAND.
I WAS SORT OF SURPRISE, THEY DID
TALK ABOUT GEORGIA A LITTLE BIT
YESTERDAY BUT INSTEAD THEY
FOCUSED ON THESE EPISODES FROM
THE 2016 CAMPAIGN WHICH WERE
FIVE OR SIX YEARS AGO. THOSE
IRRELEVANT IN SHOWING THAT THIS
IS A PART OF PATTERN
. BUT I WONDER FOR GOING TO HEAR
MORE ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED IN
GEORGIA, MICHIGAN, TRYING TO
OVERTURN THE ELECTIONS DURING
THESE PROCEEDINGS.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO GO TO YOU MORE ON
THIS, HOW TRUMP RESPONDED TO
SOME OF THOSE EPISODES, HOW HE
REACTED TO THEM AS JAMES WAS
TALKING ABOUT,
IN STATES ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THE RESPONSE HE GAVE TO THOSE,
HOW DOES THAT FACTOR IN THE
STATE OF MIND ON JANUARY 6?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: OF FACTORS IN
BECAUSE IT'S VERY SIMILAR. IF
YOU LOOK AT THE CASE  OF
GOVERNOR WHITMER AND HOW AFTER
THE PIG KIDNAPPING PLOT WAS
FOILED HE TWEETED OUT THAT SHE
SHOULD THANK HIM AND HE ALSO
EARLIER HAD TOLD HER SHE SHOULD
MEET WITH ANGRY PEOPLE WHO ARE
SO ANGRY WITH HER. HE NEVER
QUITE BRINGS HIMSELF TO GIVE ANY
SORT OF PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY
IN ANY OF THE LEAD UP TO THESE
EVENTS OF VIOLENCE AND HE SORT
OF TAKES A BACKSEAT WHEN THEY DO
HAPPEN. SO THAT WAS ONE INSTANCE
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WANTED
TO PUT OUT THERE. LOOK AT THE
ATTACKER POTENTIAL ATTACK ON
GOVERNOR WHITMER AND SEE HOW
YOU RESPONDED TO THAT. IT'S THE
SAME WITH THE SIX WHEN HE WAS
ABSENT FOR MANY OF THOSE
CRITICAL HOURS WHERE HELP NEEDED
TO BE ON THE WAY HERE AND NO ONE
HEARD FROM HIM AND THEN HE PUTS
OUT A VIDEO WITH MIXED MESSAGES,
TELLING PEOPLE TO GO HOME BUT
CLAIMING THE ELECTION IS
FRAUDULENT.
IF WE LOOK AT RESPONSES IN OTHER
WAYS IT IS ALL THE SAME MO IN
THE SAME STORY. YOU CAN LOOK
BACK EARLIER AND HOW HE REACTED
SOME OF HIS REPORTERS DRAGGING A
MAN WHO THEY DEEMED NOT A PART
OF THEIR GROUP OR AGAINST TRUMP
AND HE ENCOURAGED IT APPEARED
HE HAS NEVER EXPLICITLY DECRIED
ANY OF THESE ACTIONS AND HE DID
THE SAME ON THE SIXTH. SO THEY
ARE ESTABLISHING THIS AT LEAST
NOT JUST THE ONE TIME THING IS
SOMETHING THAT HE DOES AN
ONGOING TREND WITH THEM.
&gt;&gt;
WITH THE TRYING TO MAKE IS THAT
ONE THING BUILDS ON ANOTHER. AND
IF YOU GIVE A WINK AND A NOD
WHEN AN ATTACK HAPPENS WHEN
SOMEONE IS PUNCHED AT YOUR RALLY
, WHEN THERE'S A KIDNAPPING PLOT
OF A GOVERNOR, IF YOU SHRUG YOUR
SHOULDERS THAT IT OR EVEN
APPLAUD IT THEN YOU'RE JUST
KICKING OPEN THE DOOR MORE AND
MORE FOR VIOLENCE.
&gt;&gt; THAT, 100% AND THE FLIPSIDE,
TRUMP SAW WHEN HE SAID CERTAIN
THINGS HOW PEOPLE WOULD REACT.
THAT HE SAW THAT HIS SUPPORTERS
WERE WILLING TO ACT VIOLENTLY.
THIS IS A HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGER ARGUMENT THAT OVER SIX
YEARS WHEN HE WOULD SAY THINGS
THAT WERE PROVOCATIVE THEY WOULD
PROVOKE. AND THE ARGUMENT THAT
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER SAYS,
THAT'S WHY
TRUMP EXACTLY WHAT HE WAS DOING
STOP THE STEEL RALLY.
THEN HAVE TO FIGHT LIKE AND GO
TO CAPITOL HILL.  A SIX YEAR
TRACK RECORD MEANT THAT TRUMP
KNEW THAT VIOLENCE HE HAD
VIOLENT SUPPORTERS AND THAT COME
TO WASHINGTON AFTER HE URGED
THEM TO. HE KNEW WHAT THEY WERE
CAPABLE OF AND HE STILL GAVE
THEM THAT WINK AND THE KNOB THAT
RHONDA WAS JUST TALKING ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, THE DEMOCRATIC
SENATOR FROM NEW MEXICO HAS TOLD
OUR COLLEAGUE
RIGHT OUTSIDE THE CHAMBER,
THE SENATOR TOLD HIM HE WOULD
LOVE TO HEAR TRUMP TESTIFY EVEN
THOUGH HE DOES NOT BELIEVE IT
WOULD EVER HAPPEN. INTERESTING
TO HEAR THE APPETITE OF SENATORS
WANTED TO HEAR HIM TRY TO DEFEND
HIMSELF IN HIS OWN WORDS.
&gt;&gt; THAT WOULD CERTAINLY ADD A
DIFFERENT TWIST TO THIS.
WHERE HEARING THEY WOULD HAPPEN.
AFTER THE DEFENSE OF THEIR
ARGUMENTS TOMORROW.
THEY ARE GOING TO SHORTER
ARGUMENTS. THERE IS GOING TO BE
A VOTE LATER ABOUT SUBPOENA AND
WITNESSES PEERS SO THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT COULD COURSE
FORESEEABLY HAPPEN WE AREN'T
HEARING THAT THEY WILL
THAT IT WILL HAPPEN. THEY DID
EXTEND AN OFFER TO HIM TO
PROVIDE TESTIMONY LAST FRIDAY
AND HE DECLINED THAT APPEARED
I THINK IT'S INTERESTING THAT
THAT SENATOR SAYING HE WOULD
LIKE TO HEAR FROM TRUMP. THERE
ALSO SHOWS THERE IS AN APPETITE
FOR WITNESSES WITH THIS
PARTICULAR IMPEACHMENT, WHERE IS
THE LAST ONE, NOT SO MUCH. THERE
WAS A LENGTHY PERIOD OF
DEPOSITIONS AND OPEN HEARINGS
AND SOME OF THE PEOPLE INVOLVED
WITH KNOWLEDGE OF THE UKRAINE
CALL.
A LITTLE BIT MORE FROM PEOPLE,
SORT OF THE HORSES MOUTH,
WHETHER IT BE CAPITAL OFFICERS,
WHETHER SOME OF THESE PEOPLE WHO
WERE GIVEN AFFIDAVITS SAY THEY
ARE WORKING UNDER THE DIRECTION
OF DONALD TRUMP OR TRUMP
HIMSELF.
APPETITE OR WONDER, ADDING
WITNESSES, HOW THAT MIGHT AFFECT
THE CASE?
&gt;&gt; JAMES, LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT'S ANTICIPATED INTO THE
AFTERNOON AND INTO TOMORROW AND
WE CAN.
&gt;&gt;
WHEN THEY PUT UP THE GRAPHIC
WITH THE PICTURE OF ALL THE
PEOPLE WHO RESIGNED IN PROTEST
AFTER TRUMP'S RESPONSE TO
JANUARY 6. OBVIOUSLY THOSE
PEOPLE WOULD BE STAR WITNESSES
IF THEY WERE WILLING TO TESTIFY.
THAT WOULD TAKE MORE TIME THAN
DEMOCRATS WANT TO SPEND ON THIS.
&gt;&gt;
BUT THAT'S MAKING A DIRECT LINK
LIKE THEY THOUGHT TRUMP WAS AT
FAULT OR DID THEY, WHY DID THEY
RESIGN? WHAT WAS HER ACTUAL
REASONING, GOING ON THE RECORD
AND EXPLAINED THAT MORE COURT
CLEARLY.
&gt;&gt; WE HEARD THE RESIGNATION
LETTERS. BUT YOUR QUESTION ABOUT
WHAT TO EXPECT THIS AFTERNOON
THEY ARE GOING TO HAVE TO BRING
IT HOME NOW. HAVE A COUPLE HOURS
LEFT TO TIE THE BOW AROUND THIS.
I DO THINK WERE GOING TO HEAR
MORE ABOUT THE OTHER EPISODES. I
THINK THEY HIT PRETTY HARD ON
THE FALLOUT ELEMENT OF IT
APPEARED THE FEAR THAT IS STILL
OUT THERE. THE FACT THAT WE
STILL HAVE A SENSE AND TROOPS
PATROLLING THE CAPITAL BECAUSE
IN THEIR ARGUMENT, ALLEGEDLY,
TRUMP'S CONDUCT ON JANUARY 6.
THEY HAVE FOUR
SORT OF COVERED THE CORE OF THE
ARGUMENT INCLUDING THE AFTERMATH
OF JANUARY 6.
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S SOME
KIND OF SUMMATION OR HOW THEY
ARE GOING TO TIE IT ALL
TOGETHER. I DO THINK IT IS
INCUMBENT ON THEM TO TIE ALL OF
THIS TO TRUMP AS POSSIBLE.
PERHAPS
WHAT WE WILL SEE THIS AFTERNOON
IS MORE OF A PREEMPTION WHAT
THEY EXPECT TO BE SOME OF THE
DEFENSES ARGUMENTS THAT WILL
BEGIN IN EARNEST TOMORROW. THEY
TECHNICALLY HAVE EIGHT HOURS. I
GUESS THEY GOT ABOUT 2 1/2 HOURS
IN ALREADY. IN THEORY
THEY COULD STILL GO ON QUITE A
LOT IF THEY WANTED. BUT IT DOES
HAVE THE FEELING THAT THEY HAVE
COVERED MOST OF THE BASES.
&gt;&gt; TOMORROW A HEAR FROM TRUMP'S
LEGAL TEAM.
&gt;&gt; IT WILL BE FASCINATING.
THEY SAID THAT BRUCE CASTOR
CALLED INAUDIBLE AFTER THE
OPENING ARGUMENT WITH THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS. WHAT'S
INTERESTING IS THESE GUYS HAVE
ONLY BEEN ON THE CASE FOR 10
DAYS. DURING THE PROCEEDING.
OBVIOUSLY THESE ARE LONG DAYS.
IT'S INTERESTING TO KIND OF
WONDER HOW PREPARED WILL THEY BE
, HOW MUCH PRACTICE TIME ARE
THEY GOING TO HAVE?
&gt;&gt; THESE TWO GUYS, THEY DON'T
HAVE A PRE-EXISTING RELATIONSHIP
WITH EACH OTHER,
IF THEY MAKE ANY UNSURPRISING
ARGUMENTS OR IF IT'S SORT OF THE
FIRST OPENING PRESENTATION WHICH
DISAPPOINTED TRUMP HIMSELF, A
LOT OF THE SENATE REPUBLICANS
WHO ARE DOING EVERYTHING
POSSIBLE TO SIDE WITH THE
PRESIDENT IN ORDER TO ACQUIT
HIM.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA AFTER THE TRUMP
LAWYERS MADE THEIR CASE TO
DEFEND THE FORMER PRESIDENT
, WE COULD SEE THIS WRAP UP ON
SATURDAY. NOT TAKING WEEKEND
BRAKES AT THIS POINT. LIKE THE
PRESIDENTIAL WEEKEND, PRESIDENT
THEY WEEKEND ON MONDAY.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE HERE IN, WE HAVE FIRST
HEARD
THEY WERE GOING TO BREAK ON
SATURDAY AND THEN PICK BACK UP
ON SUNDAY BUT IT IS EXPECTED
THEY ARE JUST GOING TO PLOW
RIGHT THROUGH THE WEEKEND IN
ORDER TO FINISH THIS UP. SO
THAT'S WHAT WE ARE HEARING NOW.
I'M NOT SURE IF ANYTHING WILL
CHANGE ONCE THE DEFENSE STARTS
THEIR OPENING ARGUMENTS. AFTER
THEY CONCLUDE THOSE OPENING
ARGUMENTS THERE WILL HAVE A FOUR
HOUR Q&amp;A WHERE SENATORS WILL BE
ABLE TO QUESTION BOTH SIDES.
THEY WILL BE OF THE DO IT
VERBALLY, THEY WILL HAVE TO FILL
OUT THE FORM AND WRITE OUT A
QUESTION AND MULTIPLE SENATORS
CAN JOIN A QUESTION CARD. SO
THAT PERIOD WILL BE INTERESTING
TO WATCH,
ABLE TO SEE ESPECIALLY THE
REPUBLICANS, SEE WHERE THEIR
THINKING IS, WHAT QUESTIONS ARE
THEY GOING TO ASK REX WHAT ARE
SOME OF THE IMPORTANT POINTS
THEY FOUND IN THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ARGUMENT.
YOU'RE GOING TO GET INTO THE
WINDOW AND WHAT THEY ARE FEELING
ABOUT THIS BECAUSE WERE NOT ABLE
TO HEAR TOO MUCH FROM THEM. THEY
CAN'T DEBATE OR ASK QUESTIONS.
MOST OF WHAT WE ARE GETTING FROM
THEM. OUT OF THE CHAMBER OR ON
THEIR WAY IN EACH DAY.
AFTER THEY DEFENSE WRAPS UP
THERE
I THINK THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
ARE GOING TO CONTINUE ON THIS
THREAD ABOUT THE HARMS THAT WERE
DONE AFTER THE ATTACK.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO BACK TO THE SENATE
FLOOR THEY ARE GAMBLING BACK IN
TO GET STARTED AGAIN.
&gt;&gt;
THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT, MR.
CASTRO WILL NOW RETURN TO
ADDRESS ABOUT THE HARM PUT ON
AMERICA'S NATIONAL SECURITY AND
THE DAMAGE TO OUR INTERNATIONAL
REPUTATION.
&gt;&gt; MY COLLEAGUES DISCUSS WITH
YOU MANY HARMS TARNATION AS A
RESULT OF TRUMPS CONDUCT.
NOW I WANT TO SPEND SOME TIME
TALKING ABOUT THE HARM TO
NATIONAL SECURITY AND ARE
STANDING IN THE WORLD. WHEN
TRUMP INCITED A MOB
HE LED TO NEW BUILDING THAT
HOUSES SOME OF OUR NATION'S MOST
SENSITIVE INFORMATION. CONSIDER
WHO WAS PART OF THAT MOB? SOME
OF THE INDIVIDUALS WERE ON THE
FBI WATCHLIST. THE PAST BEHAVIOR
OF SOME INDIVIDUALS LED HERE BY
TRUMP SO ALARMED INVESTIGATORS
THAT THEIR NAMES HAVE BEEN ADDED
TO THE NATIONAL TERRORIST
SCREENING DATABASE. IN AT LEAST
ONE OF THE INSURRECTIONIST MAY
HAVE INTENDED TO STEAL
INFORMATION AND GIVE IT TO A
FOREIGN ADVERSARY. ACCORDING TO
CHARGING DOCUMENTS, RILEY
WILLIAMS ALLEGEDLY HELPED STEAL
A LAPTOP FROM SPEAKER PELOSI'S
OFFICE TO QUOTE
SEND THE COMPUTER DEVICE TO A
FRIEND IN RUSSIA WHO THEN PLAN
TO SELL THE DEVICE TO SVR
, RUSSIA'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
SERVICE.
&gt;&gt; WHILE WE CAN'T BE CERTAIN HOW
MANY FOREIGN SPIES INFILTRATED
THE CROWD OR AT LEAST
COORDINATED WITH THOSE WHO DID
, WE CAN BE SURE THAT ANY ALLEN
ENEMY WHO HAD WANTED ACCESS TO
OUR SEEKERS WOULD HAVE WANTED TO
BE PART OF THAT MOB INSIDE THESE
HALLS. AND THE POINT IS THIS.
MANY OF THE INSURRECTIONIST THAT
TRUMP INCITED TO INVADE THIS
CHAMBER WERE DANGEROUS. PEOPLE
IN THE FBI WATCHLIST, VIOLENT
EXTREMISTS, WHITE SUPREMACISTS
, THESE INSURRECTIONIST INCITED
BY TRUMP THREATENED OUR NATURAL
SECURITY.
STEALING LAPTOPS AGAIN FROM
SPEAKER PELOSI'S OFFICE, TAKING
DOCUMENTS FROM LEADER
McCONNELL'S DESK. SNAPPING
PHOTOGRAPHS AS YOU SAW ON THE
VIDEOS EARLIER
IN SENSITIVE AREAS. RANSACKING
OFFICES, RIFLING THROUGH DESKS.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, THE COMMANDER IN CHIEF,
KNEW THE RISK OF ANYONE
BREACHING THE CAPITAL. HE SWORE
AN OATH TO PRESERVE, PROTECT AND
DEFEND THIS COUNTRY. AND YET, HE
INCITED THEM HERE. HE INCITED
THEM TO BREAK INTO THE CAPITAL.
SENATORS, AS YOU ALL KNOW, WE
HAVE SPENT TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS
BUILDING THE STRONGEST MILITARY
IN THE WORLD. AND BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS ON THE MOST
SOPHISTICATED WEAPONRY ON THE
PLANET. TO PREVENT THE KIND OF
ATTACK THAT OCCURRED AT THIS
CAPITAL ON JANUARY 6.
AND HERE IS WHAT THE
INSURRECTIONIST INCITED BY TRUMP
DID.
&gt;&gt; IN MANY WAYS, THIS ROOM IS
SACRED AND SO ARE THE TRADITIONS
THAT IT REPRESENTS. THEY HAVE
BEEN CARRIED ON FOR CENTURIES
. CONGRESS HAS DECLARED WAR 11
TIMES ON THIS FLOOR, INCLUDING
ENTERING WORLD WAR II
. WHEN CONGRESS PASSES THE CIVIL
RIGHTS ACT AND EXPANDS THE RIGHT
TO VOTE TO ENSURE NO MATTER YOUR
RACE OR YOUR GENDER YOU HAVE A
VOICE IN OUR NATION. THIS FLOOR
IS WHERE HISTORY HAS BEEN MADE.
AND NOW
OUR INTELLIGENCE AGENCY AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES HAVE THE
BURDEN TO FIGURE OUT EXACTLY
WHAT WAS STOLEN, TAKEN,
RANSACKED AND COMPROMISED.
AS ACTING U.S. ATTORNEY
EXPLAINED, MATERIALS WERE STOLEN
AND WE HAVE TO IDENTIFY WHAT WAS
DONE
, MITIGATE THAT AND IT COULD
HAVE POTENTIAL NATIONAL SECURITY
EQUITIES. THESE INVESTIGATIONS
ARE NECESSARY NOW BECAUSE OF THE
ACTIONS OF PRESIDENT TRUMP. AND
IT WASN'T JUST THE PEOPLE THAT
HE LED HERE
THE INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES HAVE
TO LOOK INTO. IT IS ALSO WHAT
THEY TOOK AND WHAT THEY
GATHERED? IT IS THE VERY FACT
THAT THIS BUILDING WAS SO MUCH
SENSITIVE INFORMATION AND SOME
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION THAT THIS
CAPITAL WAS BREACHED. AND THINK
ABOUT IT. EVERY FOREIGN
ADVERSARY CONSIDERING ATTACKING
THIS BUILDING GOT TO WATCH A
DRESS REHEARSAL AND THEY SAW
THAT THIS CAPITAL COULD BE
OVERTAKEN.
AS ELIZABETH NEWMAN, A FORMER
TRUMPET AND OFFICIAL AS STATED.
QUOTE, YOU HAVE TERRORIST WHO
WOULD LOVE TO DESTROY THE
CAPITAL. THEY JUST SAW HOW EASY
IT WAS TO PENETRATE. WE JUST
EXPOSED A HUGE VULNERABILITY.
AND AS SUCH IS THE CAPITAL.
THIS ATTACK HAS IMPLICATIONS FOR
ALL GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
SENATOR RUBIO MADE THIS POINT
WELL.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU'RE AT TERRIERS RIGHT
NOW SITTING OUT THERE AND
WATCHING IS NOT SO HARD TO GET
INTO THE CAPITAL. MAYBE IT'S NOT
THAT HARD TO GET INTO THE WHITE
HOUSE OR THE SUPREME COURT
BUILDING OR SOMEWHERE ELSE.
&gt;&gt; OUR GOVERNMENT, OUR
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES, A LAW
ENFORCEMENT HAVE IMPLEMENTED
ADDITIONAL SAFETY MEASURES SINCE
THE ATTACK ON JANUARY 6. BUT
WHAT WE SECURE HIS PHYSICAL
SPACE WHAT MESSAGE WILL BE SEND
THE REST OF THE WORLD. WE
ALREADY KNOW THAT THE MESSAGE
THE OTHER SERIES TOOK FROM
JANUARY 6 IS HOW SOME OF THEM
RESPONDED AFTER THE ATTACK.
QUOTE, FOR AMERICA'S ADVERSARIES
IS NO GREATER PROOF OF
FALLIBILITY OF WESTERN DEMOCRACY
THAN THE SIDE OF THE CAPITAL
SHROUDED IN SMOKE AND BESIEGED
BY A MOB WHIPPED UP BY THEIR OWN
UNWILLINGLY OUTGOING PRESIDENT.
AND TO MAKE THAT MATTERS WORSE,
ADVERSARIES ARE USING THE EVENTS
OF JANUARY 6 NOT ONLY TO
DENIGRATE AMERICA BUT TO JUSTIFY
THEIR OWN ANTI-DEMOCRATIC
BEHAVIOR CALLING AMERICA
HYPOCRITICAL. HERE'S WHAT THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT IS SAYING.
CHINESE MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN
AFFAIRS OF THE CAPITAL RIOTS
SHOULD SPARK DEEP REFLECTION
AMONG U.S.
LAWMAKERS HOW THEY DISCUSS
PRO-DEMOCRACY MOVEMENT IN HONG
KONG SUGGESTING THAT THE U.S. IS
HYPOCRITICAL IN ANNOUNCING
BEIJING'S CRACKDOWN IN THE CITY.
OWN UNREST AT HOME. GLOBAL
TIMES.
OUTLET AFFILIATED WITH THE
CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY, EVEN
TWEETED A SERIES OF SIDE-BY-SIDE
PHOTOS OF TWO EVENTS, THE SIEGE
OF THE U.S. CAPITAL AND A JULY
2019 INCIDENT IN WHICH
PRO-DEMOCRACY PROTESTERS IN HONG
KONG BROKE INTO THE CITY'S
LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL BUILDING.
THINK ABOUT THAT.
PRESIDENT TRUMP GAVE THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT AN OPENING TO CREATE
A FALSE EQUIVALENCY BETWEEN
HONG KONG IS PROTESTING FOR
DEMOCRACY AND VIOLENT
INSURRECTIONIST TRYING TO
OVERTHROW DEMOCRACY. AS
REPRESENTATIVE GALLAGHER
DESCRIBED IN REAL TIME.
&gt;&gt; IF WE DON'T THINK OTHER
COUNTRIES AROUND THE WORLD ARE
WATCHING THIS HAPPEN RIGHT NOW,
WE DON'T THINK THE CHINESE
COMMUNIST PARTY IS SITTING BACK
AND LAUGHING, WE ARE
DELUDING OURSELVES. SO CALL IT
OFF, MR. PRESIDENT, WE NEED YOU
TO CALL THIS OFF.
&gt;&gt; RUSSIA HAS ALSO SEIZED ON THE
FILING ATTACK AGAINST OUR
GOVERNMENT DECRYING THE
DEMOCRACY IS OVER.
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE RUSSIAN
UPPER HOUSE AT THE PARLIAMENT'S
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
SAID QUOTE, THE CELEBRATION OF
DEMOCRACY IS OVER.
THIS IS OUR LAST, ACTUALLY THE
BOTTOM. I SAY THIS WITHOUT A
HINT OF GLOATING. AMERICA IS NO
LONGER CHARTING THE COURSE AND
THEREFORE HAS LOST ALL ITS
RIGHTS TO SET IT. AND ALSO
WRITES TO IMPOSE IT ON OTHERS.
THEY ARE USING TRUMPS
INCITEMENTS
OF INSURRECTION TO DECLARE THAT
DEMOCRACY IS OVER.
IN IRAN, THE SUPREME LEADER IS
USING TRUMPS INCITEMENT OF
INSURRECTION TO MOCK AMERICA.
HE SAID THE SITUATION IN THE
UNITED STATES, QUOTE, THIS IS
THEIR DEMOCRACY AND HUMAN
RIGHTS? THIS IS THEIR ELECTION
SCANDAL, THESE ARE THEIR VALUES.
THESE VALUES ARE BEING MOCKED BY
THE WHOLE WORLD. EVEN THEIR
FRIENDS. EVEN THEIR FRIENDS ARE
LAUGHING AT THEM.
&gt;&gt; THE STATEMENTS ARE SERIOUS
AND PERVASIVE. ACCORDING TO A
JOINT THREAT ASSESSMENT BULLETIN
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY, FBI AND EIGHT OTHER
LAW ENFORCEMENT ENTITIES
, QUOTE, SINCE THE CAPITAL ON
JANUARY 6, RUSSIA, IRANIAN,
CHINESE INFLUENCE DOCTORS THAT
SEIZE THE OPPORTUNITY TO AMPLIFY
NARRATIVES IN FURTHERANCE OF
THEIR POLICY INTEREST AMID THE
RESIDENTIAL TRANSITION.
WE CANNOT LET THEM USE WHAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6 TWO DEFINE
US, WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE STAND
FOR.
WE GET TO DEFINE OURSELVES BY
HOW WE RESPOND TO THE ATTACK OF
JANUARY 6.
SOME MIGHT BE TEMPTED TO SAY AND
POINT OUT
THAT HER ADVERSARIES ARE ALWAYS
GOING TO BE CRITICAL OF THE
UNITED STATES.
BEFORE AND INSURRECTION ON
JANUARY 6, EVEN OUR ALLIES ARE
SPEAKING UP. CANADIAN PRIME
MINISTER SAYS QUOTE
, WHAT WE WITNESSED WAS AN
ASSAULT ON DEMOCRACY BY VIOLENT
RIOTERS, INCITED BY THE CURRENT
PRESIDENT AND OTHER POLITICIANS,
SHOCKING, DEEPLY DISTURBING AND
SADDENING AS THAT EVENT REMAINS
WE HAVE ALSO SEEN THIS WEEK THAT
DEMOCRACY IS RESILIENT IN
AMERICA, OUR CLOSEST ALLY AND
NEIGHBOR. THE GERMAN FOREIGN
MINISTER SAID
QUOTE, THIS CLOSING OF RANKS
BEGINS WITH HOLDING THOSE
ACCOUNTABLE OR RESPONSIBLE FOR
SUCH A GALATIANS. THAT INCLUDES
THE VIOLENT RIOTERS AND INCLUDES
THEIR INSTIGATORS. THE WORLD IS
WATCHING AND WONDERING WHETHER
WE ARE WHO WE SAY WE ARE?
BECAUSE WHAT OTHER COUNTRIES
HAVE KNOWN CHAOS, OUR
CONSTITUTION HAS HELPED KEEP
ORDER IN AMERICA. THIS IS WHY WE
HAVE A CONSTITUTION.
WE MUST STAND UP FOR THE RULE OF
LAW BECAUSE THE RULE OF LAW
DOESN'T JUST STAND UP BY ITSELF.
AFTER THE INSURRECTION MY
COLLEAGUES ON THE HOUSE AFFAIRS
COMMITTEE, CHAIRMAN AND THE
RANKING MEMBER ISSUED A
BIPARTISAN STATEMENT THAT SAID
QUOTE, AMERICA HAS ALWAYS BEEN A
BEACON OF FREEDOM TO THE WORLD.
PROOF THAT FREE AND FAIR
ELECTIONS ARE ACHIEVABLE AND
DEMOCRACY WORKS.
WHAT HAPPENED AT THE CAPITAL HAS
SCARRED HER REPUTATION AND
DAMAGED OUR STANDING IN THE
WORLD. TODAY'S VIOLENCE,
INEVITABLE RESULT WHEN LEADERS
AND POSITION OF POWER MISLED THE
PUBLIC WILL CERTAINLY EMPOWER
DICTATORS AND DAMAGE STRUGGLING
DEMOCRACIES.
&gt;&gt; GIVES HOPE TO PEOPLE
STRUGGLING FOR DEMOCRACY AND
AUTOCRATIC SHOULD CAME IT
INSPIRES PEOPLE FIGHTING ACROSS
THE WORLD FOR FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN
RIGHTS ELECTED INSPIRES US TO
BELIEVE IN SOMETHING LARGER THAN
OURSELVES. THIS TRIAL IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND AND TO
SEND A MESSAGE BACK TO THE
WORLD. I SAY THIS IS CELLULOSE
MY COUNTRY OUR COUNTRY, JUST
ALL OF YOU DO. THERE IS A LOT OF
COURAGE IN THIS ROOM. A LOT OF
COURAGE THAT HAS BEEN
DEMONSTRATED IN THE LIVES OF
PEOPLE IN THIS ROOM. SOME FOLKS
HAVE STOOD UP FOR THE CIVIL
RIGHTS AND RISK CAREERS AND
REPUTATIONS LIVELIHOODS AND
SAFETY STANDING UP FOR CIVIL
RIGHTS. MANY MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
RISKED THEIR LIVES IN SERVICE TO
OUR COUNTRY. IN UNIFORM,
AND JUNGLES OF VIETNAM
PATROLLING MOUNTAINS OF
AFGHANISTAN.
YOU SERVED OUR COUNTRY BECAUSE
YOU WERE WILLING TO SACRIFICE
AND DEFEND OUR NATION AS WE KNOW
IT. AS THE WORLD KNOWS IT.
ALTHOUGH, MOST OF YOU HAVE
TRADED IN YOUR UNIFORM FOR
PUBLIC SERVICE,
YOUR COUNTRY NEEDS YOU ONE MORE
TIME.
THE WORLD WATCHED RESIDENT TRUMP
TELL HIS BIG LIE. THE WORLD
WATCHED SUPPORTERS COME TO
WASHINGTON AT HIS INVITATION THE
WORLD WATCHED AS HE TOLD HIS
SUPPORTERS, TO MARCH YEAR AT THE
CAPITAL. AND PRESIDENT TRUMP OUR
COMMANDER IN CHIEF AT THE TIME
FAILED TO TAKE ANY ACTION TO
DEFEND US. I THINK ACTUALLY
FAILED IN HIS DUTY TO PRESERVE
PROTECT AND DEFEND NOW,
WORLD IS WATCHING US WONDERING,
WHAT OUR CONSTITUTIONAL REPUBLIC
IS GOING TO RESPOND THE WAY IT
SHOULD. THE WAY IT IS SUPPOSED
TO. WHETHER THE RULE OF LAW WILL
PREVAIL OVER MONGREL BECAUSE THE
ANSWER TO THAT QUESTION HAS
CONSEQUENCES FAR BEYOND OUR OWN
BORDERS
. THINK OF THE CONSEQUENCES TO
OUR DIPLOMATS AND NEGOTIATORS AS
THEY SIT AT TABLES AROUND THE
WORLD TO ENFORCE OUR AGENDA ON
TRADE, THE ECONOMY, AND HUMAN
RIGHTS.
TWO FAILED TO CONVICT A
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
WHO INCITED A DEADLY INTERACTION
WHO ACTED IN CONCERT WITH A
VIOLENT MOB INTERFERED WITH THE
CERTIFICATION OF THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE VOTES WHO ADVOCATED
HIS DUTY AS COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
WOULD BE TO FORFEIT THE POWER OF
OUR EXAMPLE IS A NORTHSTAR ON
FREEDOM DEMOCRACY HUMAN RIGHTS
AT THE MOST OF ALL, ON THE RULE
OF LAW. TO CONVICT DONALD TRUMP
WOULD MEAN AMERICA STANDS FOR
THE RULE OF LAW. NO MATTER WHO
VIOLATES IT. WHAT A SHOW THE
WORLD JANUARY 6th WAS NOT
AMERICA. LET US REMIND THE WORLD
WE ARE TRULY THEIR NORTHSTAR.
&gt;&gt; REPRESENTATIVE NICKERSON I
WILL ADDRESS THE FIRST AMENDMENT
ARGUMENT THAT IS OFFERED BY
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LETTERS TO
EXCUSE HIS INCITEMENT TO THIS
INSTRUCTION.
&gt;&gt;
WAS THE PRESIDENT, DISTINGUISHED
SENATORS, GOOD AFTERNOON. YOU
HAVE HEARD OVER THE COURSE OF
THE LAST SEVERAL DAYS, THE
ROAMING EVIDENCE THAT RESIDENT
TRUMP INCITED AN INSURRECTION.
AS RASKIN MENTIONED AS WE
PREPARED TO CLOSE WE WOULD BE
REMISS BRIEFLY IF WE ADDRESS
CURRENTLY THE PRINCIPAL DEFENSE
THAT THE PRESIDENT WILL OFFER TO
EXCUSE HIS CONDUCT THAT IS THIS
NOTION THAT HE CANNOT BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE FOR WHAT HAPPENED ON
JANUARY 6th THE CAUSE'S ACTIONS
ARE SOMEHOW PROTECTED BY THE
FIRST AMENDMENT. NOW, LET'S STOP
A MOMENT AND TRY TO UNDERSTAND
THE ARGUMENT
THAT THEY ARE MAKING. ACCORDING
TO PRESIDENT TRUMP, EVERYTHING
HE DID, EVERYTHING WE SHOWED YOU
HE DID, WAS PERFECTLY OKAY FOR
HIM TO DO. FOR A FUTURE
PRESIDENT TO DO AGAIN. THE
CONSTITUTION APPARENTLY, IN
THEIR VIEW FORBIDS YOU, FROM
DOING ANYTHING TO STOP IT.
THAT CANNOT BE RIGHT. IT CANNOT
BE. IT IS NOT RIGHT THEIR
ARGUMENT IS MEANT AS A
DISTRACTION. THEY ARE CONCERNED
NOT WITH THE FACT THAT OCCURRED.
THE FACT THAT WE HAVE PROVEN.
WHERE PRESIDENT TRUMP DID
NOTHING BUT DELIVER IT
CONTROVERSIAL SPEECH AT A RALLY.
OF COURSE THAT IS NOT WHAT WE
HAVE CHARGED IN THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT IT IS NOT WHAT
HAPPENED. YOU WILL HEAR FROM MY
COLLEAGUE RASKIN THE MANY MYRIAD
REASONS WHY THIS ARGUMENT THEY
MAKE IS WRONG COMPLETELY. NOT
AROUND THE EDGES. MAJOR,
FUNDAMENTAL MISTAKES OF
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW, THE KIND
RASKIN TELLS ME WOULD NOT CUT IT
IN HIS FIRST YEAR LAW COURSE OF
COURSE HE WOULD KNOW SINCE HE
HAS TAUGHT THE SUBJECT FOR
DECADES. THAT EXPLAINS WHY SO
MANY LAWYERS WHO HAVE DEDICATED
THEIR LIVES TO PROTECTING FREE
SPEECH INCLUDING MANY OF THE
NATIONS MOST PROMINENT
CONSERVATIVE FREE-SPEECH LAWYERS
HAVE DESCRIBED PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S FIRST AMENDMENT CLAIMS
AS QUOTE, LEGALLY FRIVOLOUS.
JULIE ANOTHER QUOTE FROM RECENT
LETTER PROMINENT FREE-SPEECH
LAWYERS THEY QUOTE THE FIRST
AMENDMENT IS NO BAR TO THE
SENATE CONVICTING FORMER
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
DISQUALIFYING HIM FROM HOLDING
DUE DILIGENCE. THERE ARGUMENT IS
WRONG ON FACTS, WRONG ON THE LAW
AND WOULD FLIP THE CONSTITUTION
UPSIDE DOWN. LET'S START WITH
THE FACTS. BECAUSE AS YOU WILL
SEE, HIS FREE-SPEECH CLAIM
DEPEND ON AN ACCOUNT OF WHAT HE
DID THAT HAS NO BASIS IN THE
EVIDENCE TO HEAR HIS LAWYER TELL
IT, HE WAS SOME GUY AT A RALLY
EXPRESSING UNPOPULAR OPINIONS
THEY WOULD HAVE YOU BELIEVE THIS
IMPEACHMENT BECAUSE HE SAID
THINGS THAT ONE MAY DISAGREE
WITH. REALLY? MAKE NO MISTAKE.
THEY WILL DO ANYTHING TO AVOID
TALKING ABOUT THE FACTS OF THIS
CASE THAT I CAN ASSURE YOU
INSTEAD WE EXPECT THEY WILL TALK
ABOUT A LOT OF OTHER SPEECHES
INCLUDING SOME GIVEN BY
DEMOCRATIC OFFICIALS THEY WILL
INSIST FIRST AMENDMENT PROTECTS
ALL OF THIS AS THOUGH IT WERE
EXACTLY THE SAME. WE TRUST YOU
TO KNOW THE DIFFERENCE. BECAUSE
YOU HAVE SEEN THE EVIDENCE THAT
WE HAVE SEEN.
WE HAVE PROVEN OVER THE LAST
THREE DAYS, HIS ARGUMENTS
COMPLETELY DO NOT DESCRIBE THE
REALITY WHAT HAPPENED
ON JANUARY 6th. THEY LEAVE OUT
EVERYTHING THAT MATTERS ABOUT
WHY WE ARE HERE AND WHAT HE DID.
BECAUSE PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS NOT
JUST SOME GUY POLITICAL OPINIONS
WHO SHOWED UP AT A RALLY ON
JANUARY 6th AND DELIVERED
CONTROVERSIAL REMARKS. HE WAS
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES. HE HAD SPENT MONTHS,
MONTHS, USING UNIQUE POWER OF
THAT OFFICE. HIS BULLY PULPIT TO
SPREAD THAT BIG LIE AT THE
ELECTION IT HAD BEEN STOLEN TO
CONVINCE HIS FOLLOWERS TO STOP
THE STEEL TO ASSEMBLE THEM
BLOCKS AWAY FROM HERE ON JANUARY
6 AT THE VERY MOMENT WE WERE
MEETING TO COUNT THE ELECTRICAL
COLLEGE VOTES WORKING NEW IT HAD
BEEN WIDELY REPORTED THEY WERE
PRIMED AND EAGER AND READY FOR
VIOLENCE AT HIS SIGNAL. AND MEN,
STANDING IN THE MIDDLE OF THAT
EXPLOSIVE SITUATION, AND THAT
POWDER CAKE
THAT HE HAD CREATED OVER THE
COURSE OF MONTHS, BEFORE A
CROWD, THE PEOPLE THAT WERE
POSED FOR VIOLENCE, AT HIS
SIGNAL, HE STRUCK A MATCH.
HE AIMED IT STRAIGHT AT THIS
BUILDING. AT US. YOU HAVE SEEN
ALL THAT EVIDENCE. THERE IS NO
DENYING. THAT'S WHY HOUSE
IMPEACHED HIM. THAT'S WHY HE'S
ON TRIAL.
NO PRESIDENT, NO MATTER
POLITICS, THE POLITICS OF THEIR
ALWAYS CONSERVATIVE, LIBERAL, OR
ANYTHING ELSE, NO PRESIDENT CAN
DO WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP DID.
BECAUSE THIS IS NOT ABOUT
POLITICS. IT'S ABOUT HIS REFUSAL
TO ACCEPT THE OUTCOME OF THE
ELECTION AND HIS DECISION TO
INCITE AN INSTRUCTION. THERE'S
NO SERIOUS ADAMANT THAT THE
FIRST AMENDMENT PROTECTS THAT.
IT WOULD BE EXTRAORDINARILY
DANGEROUS FOR THE UNITED STATES
SENATE TO CONCLUDE OTHERWISE. TO
TELL FUTURE PRESIDENTS
THAT THEY CAN DO EXACTLY WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID AND GET AWAY
WITH IT. TO SET THE PRECEDENT
THAT THIS IS AN ACCEPTABLE NOW
CONSTITUTIONALLY PROTECTED
WEIGHT TO RESPOND TO LOSING AN
ELECTION. YOU WILL NOTE
SOMETHING.
BY ALL ACCOUNTS IT DOES NOT
APPEAR COMES LAWYERS DISAGREE.
THEY DON'T INSIST THE FACTS WE
HAVE CHARGED, THE FACTS WE HAVE
PROVEN, THE FACTS SUPPORTED BY
OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE ARE TRUE.
OF COURSE YOU NOW KNOW THEY ARE.
THERE'S NOTHING YOU CAN DO. THEY
ARE NOT ARGUING IT IS OKAY OR A
PERSON TO INCITE A MOB VIOLENCE.
I DO NOT THINK THEY ARE ARGUING
THAT. INSTEAD WHAT THEY ARE
DOING IS OFFERING A RADICALLY
DIFFERENT VERSION OF WHAT
HAPPENED THAT DAY. TOTALLY
INCONSISTENT WITH THE EVIDENCE.
THEN, THEY INSIST THAT FICTIONAL
VERSION OF EVENTS THAT ALTERNATE
REALITY IS TRUE, WELL THEN,
IT MAY BE PROTECTED BY THE FIRST
AMENDMENT. THAT'S THE ARGUMENT.
YOU ARE HERE TO ADJUDICATE REAL
EVIDENCE. REAL FACTS. NOT
HYPOTHETICAL ONES. FOR THAT
REASON ALONE, YOU SHOULD REJECT
THEIR ARGUMENT BECAUSE HE'S
ADVANCED TO DEFEND THE SITUATION
THERE IS NO RESEMBLANCE TO THE
ACTUAL FACT OF THIS CASE. WITH
THAT, WHAT TO TURN IT OVER TO MY
COLLEAGUE AT RASKIN TO ADDRESS
THE MANY LEGAL FLAWS A MENTION
OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S POSITION.
&gt;&gt; SO MR. NEGUSE EXPLAINED HIS
LAST DITCH FIRST AMENDMENT
ARGUMENT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
THE FACTS OF THE CASE. HE HAS
BEEN IMPEACHED FOR INCITING
VIOLENCE AGAINST GOVERNMENT
INCITEMENT TO PILOT INSTRUCTION
IS NOT PROTECTED BY
FREE SPEECH AND THERE'S NO FIRST
AMENDMENT DEFENSE TO IMPEACHMENT
FOR HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS. THE IDEA IS
ABSURD. THE WHOLE FIRST
AMENDMENT SMOKESCREEN IS
IRRELEVANT A DISTRACTION FROM A
STANDARD OF HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS GOVERNING A
PRESIDENT WHO IS VIOLATED HIS
OFFICE YET, PRESIDENT TRUMP WE
KNOW, IS A GOOD WAY OF SAYING
RON IS RIGHT AND UP IS DOWN.
HE'S TRYING TO PULL OFF THE
BIGGEST ELECTION FRAUD IN THE
HISTORY OF AMERICAN BY
OVERTURNING THE RESULTS OF THE
ELECTION. EVEN AS HE INSISTED
HIS OWN FRAUD WAS IN FACT AN
EFFORT TO STOP THE STEEL. TO
STOP A FRAUD. A VAST CONSPIRACY
HE BLAMED ON LOCAL AND STATE
OFFICIALS, THE MEDIA, ELECTION
OFFICIALS FEDERAL, STATE MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS AND ANYBODY WHO GOT
ALONG WITH HIM IS PART OF THE
CONSPIRACY. HE VIOLATED OFFICE
BY INCITING MOB VIOLENCE FROM
COUNTING ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES
BY THE 12th AMENDMENT COUNT ACT.
EVEN AS HE ATTACKED VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE AT A RALLY FOR
VIOLATING HIS OATH OF OFFICE.
GOING ALONG WITH AN EGREGIOUS
ASSAULT ON DEMOCRACY. NOW HE
ARGUES CONGRESS IS VIOLATING HIS
FREE-SPEECH RIGHTS, WHEN IT WAS
DONALD TRUMP WHO INCITED THE
INSURRECTION AS AN ATTACK
AGAINST US IN HALTED SPEECH AND
DEBATE ON THE FLOOR OF THE HOUSE
AND SENATE DURING THE PEACEFUL
TRANSFER OF POWER AND IT
IMPERILED THE CONSTITUTIONAL
ORDER THAT PROTECTS FREEDOM OF
SPEECH IN THE FIRST PLACE ALONG
WITH ALL OUR OTHER FUNDAMENTAL
RIGHTS. AS A MATTER OF LAW, IT'S
A MATTER OF LOGIC HIS BRAZEN
ATTEMPT TO NOTE THE FIRST MEMO
THAT I WILL NOT HOLD UP IN ANY
WAY. IT COMPLETELY IGNORES THE
FACT THAT HE WAS THE PRESIDENT A
PUBLIC OFFICIAL. HE SWEARS AN
OATH AS THE PRESIDENT. NOBODY
ELSE SWEARS AND IN EXCHANGE HE'S
GIVEN GREATER POWER THAN ANYBODY
IN THE COUNTRY. HE OR SHE
PROMISES TO PRESERVE, PROTECT
AND DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION AND
OUR GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS AND
PEOPLE. AS WE KNOW, THE POWER TO
ADDRESS PEOPLE IN PUBLIC
GOVERNMENT OFFICE ESPECIALLY
COMES WITH SPECIAL OBLIGATION TO
UPHOLD LAWS AND INTEGRITY OF OUR
REPUBLIC. WE ALL SWEAR THAT.
WHAT ABOUT THE PRESIDENT
PUBLICLY
ON A DAILY BASIS ADVOCATED
REPLACING THE CONSTITUTION WITH
A TOTALITARIAN FORM OF
GOVERNMENT? HE SWORE AND OATH OF
LOYALTY TO US WARREN FOREIGN
LEADER? AS A PRIVATE CITIZEN YOU
GOT
TO DO ANYTHING ABOUT PEOPLE
USING THOSE WORDS TO ADVOCATE
TOTALITARIANISM. TO ADVOCATE
SECESSION FROM THE UNION. TO
SWEAR AN OATH OF PERSONAL
LOYALTY TO A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT
OR COUNTRY THAT'S TOTALLY
PROTECTED. IF YOU TRIED TO
PROSECUTE SOMEBODY FOR THAT, YOU
WOULD LOSE. IT IS SIMPLY
INCONCEIVABLE
, UNTHINKABLE, THAT THE
PRESIDENT COULD DO ANY OF THESE
THINGS GET UP AND SWEAR AN OATH
TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENT OR LEADERS
ADVOCATE TOTALITARIANISM NOT BE
IMPEACHED FOR IT. IT'S
UNTHINKABLE. THAT WOULD VIOLATE
FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS? THE
OPPOSITE VIEW BY TRUMP'S
COUNSEL, WOULD LEAVE THE NATION
POWERLESS TO RESPOND TO A
PRESIDENT WHO USES THE UNMATCHED
POWER, PRIVILEGE, AND PRESTIGE
OF HIS OR HER OFFICE BULLY OPEN
IN WAYS THAT RISK THE RUIN OF
THE REPUBLIC. ALL FOR HIS OR HER
OWN AMBITION. LUST FOR POWER.
EVERYONE SHOULD BE CLEAR. IT IS
NOT THE REMOTELY EXOTIC ABOUT
WHAT WE SAY. IT SHOULD BE COMMON
SENSE TO EVERYBODY. COMMON
SENSE. ABOUT THIS UNDERSTANDING
OF THE FIRST AMENDMENT APPLIES
TO COPS, FIREFIGHTERS EVERYBODY.
MY DAUGHTER WAS MENTIONED AS A
TEACHER IN A PUBLIC SCHOOL.
TEACHERS TEACH BUT THINK OFF
SCRIPT AND ADVOCATING
TOTALITARIANISM, TREASON OR WHAT
HAVE YOU,
THEY ARE NOT LIVING UP TO THE
DUTIES OF THEIR OFFICE TO
TEACHERS, THEY CAN BE FIRED.
EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT. IT HAPPENS
ALL THE TIME. INCLUDING TWO COPS
AND
FIREFIGHTERS AND PEOPLE IN THE
FRONT LINES. IN FACT IT HAPPENED
COUNTLESS TIMES TWO PEOPLE FIRED
BY PRESIDENT TRUMP FOR
STATEMENTS ARE THERE OWN IDEAS
ABOUT THINGS INCLUDING ON
ELECTION FRAUD. NOT LONG AGO.
PEOPLE IN THE GOVERNMENT WHO
LOST
THEIR JOBS BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT
DIDN'T LIKE WHAT THEY SAID. NOW,
AS I MENTIONED YESTERDAY, I
CANNOT HELP BUT REPEAT, SCALIA
WAS RIGHT. SHE WROTE ON THESE
CASES ABOUT HOW THE FIRST
AMENDMENT AFFECTS PEOPLE WHO
TAKE ON PUBLIC OFFICE. THEY TAKE
ON PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT. HE SUMMED
IT UP LIKE THIS. HE SAID CANNOT
WRITE WITH COMPS BUT
ROOT FOR THE ROBBERS. YOU CANNOT
WRITE WITH COMPS BUT ROOT FOR
THE ROBBERS. THAT'S WHAT JUSTICE
SCALIA SAID. WHEN IT COMES TO
PEACEFUL TRANSFER POWER TO THE
RULE OF LAW, TO RESPECT AND
ELECTION OUTCOME, OUR PRESIDENT
WEBER HE OR SHE IS, MUST CHOOSE
THE SIDE OF THE CONSTITUTION.
PLUS, NOT THE SIDE OF THE
INSURRECTION OR TO OR ANYBODY
COMING AGAINST US
. IF HE OR SHE CHOOSES THE WRONG
SIDE, I'M SORRY.
THERE'S NOTHING IN THE FIRST
AMENDMENT OR ANYWHERE ELSE, THAT
CAN EXCUSE YOUR BETRAYAL OF YOUR
OFFICE. IT'S NOT A FREE-SPEECH
QUESTION.
LET'S PLAY MAKE-BELIEVE AND
PRETEND PRESIDENT TRUMP IS A
PRIVATE CITIZEN. JUST ANOTHER
GUY AT THE RALLY. HE'S
EXPRESSING A DEEPLY UNPOPULAR
OPINION BECAUSE SHOULD NOT
OVERLOOK
WHILE THERE WERE THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE IN THE VIOLENT MOB THEY
REPRESENT A TINY, TINY, TINY
PART OF LESS THAN 1% OF THE
POPULATION OF THE VAST MAJORITY
OF AMERICANS WHO REJECT THE
SEDITIOUS MOB VIOLENCE THAT WE
SAW DINNER SIX.
BUT, LET'S SAY, YOU ARE ANOTHER
GUY IN THE CROWD. IT IS A
BEDROCK PRINCIPLE THAT NOBODY
NOBODY CAN INCITE A RIOT. FIRST
AMENDMENT DOES NOT PROTECT IT.
BRANDENBURG VERSUS OHIO. NO
FIRST AMENDMENT FOR SPEECH FOR
PRODUCING
IMMINENT LAWLESS ACTION. FOR ALL
THE REASONS YOU HAVE HEARD,
BASED ON THE COMPREHENSIVE,
TOTALLY
UNREPEATABLE IRREFUTABLE BASED
ON ALL EVIDENCE YOU HAVE HEARD,
AND ALL THE REASONS YOU EVER
HEARD, THAT DEFINITION OF
PRESCRIBED MOBILE SPEECH FITS
THE CONDUCT OF PRESIDENT TRUMP
PERFECTLY. THIS IS A CLASSIC
CASE OF INCITEMENT. YOU DO NOT
HAVE TO TAKE MY WORD. THE 144
FREE-SPEECH LAWYERS THAT INCLUDE
MANY OF THE NATION'S MOST
DEDICATED, MOST
UNCOMPROMISING FREE-SPEECH
ADVOCATES, UNLIKE MR. TRUMP, OF
COURSE, THESE PEOPLE AGREE,
THERE IS A POWERFUL CASE FOR
CONVICTION
UNDER THE BRANDENBURG STANDARD.
EVEN IF THE PRESIDENT WERE TO BE
TREATED LIKE SOME GUY IN THE
CROWD. THEY ADD, THE FIRST
AMENDMENT IS NO DEFENSE TO THE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT LEVELED
AGAINST THE FORMER PRESIDENT. I
MENTIONED THE BRANDENBURG
STANDARD NOT BECAUSE THE PIPE
BUT IT IS AN
IMPEACHMENT NOT A CRIMINAL
TRIAL. THERE IS NO JAIL TIME
RISK. THE PRESIDENT DOES NOT GO
TO JAIL FOR ONE HOUR OR ONE DAY
OR ONE MINUTE BASED ON
IMPEACHMENT AND CONVICTION. IT
IS DISQUALIFICATION OR I
MENTIONED IT TO EMPHASIZE NOBODY
IN AMERICA WOULD BE PROTECTED BY
THE FIRST AMENDMENT IF THEY DID
ALL THE THINGS DONALD TRUMP DID.
NOBODY MADE HIM RUN FOR
PRESIDENT OR SWEAR AN OATH IN
2017 BUT WHEN HE DID BY SWEARING
THAT
OATH AND ENTERING THIS HIGH
OFFICE, HE TOOK A DUTY ON
HIMSELF TO AFFIRM AND TAKE CARE
THAT OUR LAWS WOULD BE
FAITHFULLY EXECUTED UNDER HIS
LEADERSHIP. ALL OF THE LAWS. THE
LAWS AGAINST DESTRUCTION OF
PROPERTY. ALL OF THE LAWS.
WE EXPECTED HIM IN EVERY THING
HE SAID AND DID TO PROTECT AND
PRESERVE AND DEFEND
OUR CONSTITUTIONAL SYSTEM. THAT
INCLUDES THE SEPARATION OF
POWER. INSTEAD, HE BETRAYED US.
IT WAS THE GREATEST BETRAYAL OF
A PRESIDENTIAL OATH IN THE
HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA. THE GREATEST. AS I
MENTIONED YESTERDAY, PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS NOT CLOSE TO THE
PROVERBIAL CITIZEN THAT SHOUTS
FIRE IN A CROWDED THEATER. HE'S
LIKE THE NOW PROVERBIAL
MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF WHO INCITES
A MOB TO SET THE THEATER ON FIRE
AND
NOT ONLY REFUSES TO PUT THE FIRE
OUT BUT ENCOURAGES THE MOB TO
KEEP GOING AS THE BLAZE SPREADS.
WE WOULD HOLD THAT FIRE CHIEF
ACCOUNTABLE. WE WOULD FOR
VICTIMS FROM MY JOB EVER AGAIN
AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT MUST
HAPPEN HERE. THERE ARE HUNDREDS
OF MILLIONS OF CITIZENS AND
DONALD TRUMP HAS DISQUALIFIED
HIMSELF AND YOU MUST DISQUALIFY
HIM TOO. JUST LIKE THE FIRE
CHIEF, SENDS THE MOB TRUMP
PERVERTED HIS OFFICE BY TACKING
THE VERY CONSTITUTION HE WAS
SWORN TO UPHOLD. IN FACT THAT'S
ONE REASON WHY THIS FREE-SPEECH
RHETORIC IS INSIDIOUS. HIS
CONTACT REPRESENTED THE MOST
DANGEROUS ASSAULT BY GOVERNMENT
OFFICIAL ON OUR CONSTITUTION
INCLUDING THE FIRST AMENDMENT IN
LIVING MEMORY. WE WOULDN'T HAVE
FREE-SPEECH OR ANY OTHER RIGHTS
IF WE DID NOT HAVE THE RULE OF
LAW PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF POWER
IN A DEMOCRACY
WHERE THE OUTCOME OF THE
ELECTION IS ACCEPTED BY THE
CANDIDATE WHO LOST. WE HAD IT UP
UNTIL 2020. THE ESSENTIAL
PURPOSE OF THE FIRST AMENDMENT
DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT AND CIVIC
TRUTH SEEKING. TWO PURPOSES THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP SOUGHT TO
UNDERMINE NOT ADVANCE.
AS HE DEMONSTRATED AND THE
VIOLENCE INSIDE THE THREATENED
DOLLAR FREEDOMS. HE THREATENED
THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER THAT
PROTECTS FREE SPEECH, DUE
PROCESS RELIGIOUS FREE EXERCISE,
THE RIGHT TO VOTE, AND MANY
OTHER FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS WE
TREASURE AND CHERISH.
THE FIRST AMENDMENT DOES NOT
CREATE SOME SUPERPOWER IMMUNITY
FROM IMPEACHMENT FOR PRESIDENT
WHO ATTACKS THE CONSTITUTION IN
WORD AND DEED WHILE REJECTING
THE OUTCOME OF THE ELECTION. IF
ANYTHING, PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
CONDUCT WAS AN ASSAULT ON THE
FIRST AMENDMENT THAT MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS EXERCISE WHEN THEY
VOTED LAST YEAR.  OFTEN UNDER
EXTRAORDINARILY DIFFICULT AND
ARDUOUS CIRCUMSTANCES. REMEMBER.
IT RESPECTS THE RIGHT OF THE
PEOPLE TO SPEAK ABOUT ISSUES OF
OUR DAY. TO DEBATE
AND THEN TO PARTICIPATE IN
POLITICS BY SELECTING THE PEOPLE
WHO WILL BE OUR LEADERS.
REMEMBER, THOSE OF US WHO ASPIRE
AND ATTAIN PUBLIC OFFICE ARE
NOTHING BUT THE SERVANTS OF THE
PEOPLE. NOTHING. NOTHING NOT
MASTERS. THERE ARE NO KINGS
HERE. WE DON'T HAVE ANY CZARS.
THE PEOPLE.
MOST IMPORTANT WORDS OF THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE FIRST THREE.
WE, THE PEOPLE. ALL THIS, ALL
THIS MEANS LITTLE FOR PRESIDENT
WHO DISLIKES THE ELECTION
RESULTS CAN INCITE VIOLENCE TO
TRY TO REPLACE
AND USURP THE WILL OF THE
PEOPLE. IS EXPRESSED IN THE
STATES. IGNORED THE JUDICIAL
BRANCH OF GOVERNMENT AND THEN
RUN OVER THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
OF GOVERNMENT WITH A MOB.
PRESIDENT TRUMPS CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS SOUGHT TO NULLIFY
THE POLITICAL RIGHTS AND
SOVEREIGNTY OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
OUR RIGHTIST PEOPLE TO
DELIBERATE TO FORM OPINIONS TO
PERSUADE EACH OTHER TO BOTH AND
DECIDE WHO OUR PRESIDENT WILL
BE. THE SOVEREIGNTY OF THE
PEOPLE THAT IS AN ATTACK ON THE
FIRST AMENDMENT I WOULD SAY. IN
ADDITION, PRESIDENT TRUMPS
ACTIONS
WERE A DIRECT ATTACK ON HER OWN
FREEDOM OF SPEECH HERE IN THE
CAPITAL. MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TO
SPEAK FOR CONSTITUENTS. THAT IS
WHY WE HAVE OUR OWN LITTLE MINI
FREE-SPEECH CLAUSE SPEECH AND
DEBATE CLAUSE. THAT IS LITERALLY
OUR JOB. WE COME HERE
AND REPRESENT THE VIEWS OF OUR
PEOPLE. HE INCITED MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS TO STOP SPEAKING UNTIL
WE TRULY BELIEVE OUR LIVES AND
THE LIVES OF OUR STAFF AND
FAMILIES. THE STATEMENTS AND
ACTIONS TO SPEECH IN CONGRESS.
SPEECH RELATED TO THE PEACEFUL
TRANSFER POWER HE HAS NO RIGHT.
HE HAS NO RIGHT TO CLAIM
FREE-SPEECH PRINCIPLE TO PREVENT
THIS BODY FROM EXERCISING ITS
CONSTITUTIONAL POWERS TO HOLD
HIM ACCOUNTABLE FOR HIS OFFENSE
AGAINST US. YOU KNOW, VOLTAIRE
SAID FAMOUSLY, IN OUR FOUNDERS
KNEW IT.
I MAY DISAGREE WITH ANYTHING YOU
STAY BUT I WILL DEFEND WITH MY
LIFE RIGHT TO SAY IT. PRESIDENT
TRUMP SAY BECAUSE I DISAGREE
WITH EVERYTHING YOU SAY I WILL
OVERTURN YOUR POPULAR ELECTION
AND DESPITE INSIGHT INSURRECTION
AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT. WE MIGHT
TAKE A MOMENT TO CONSIDER
ANOTHER VOLTAIRE INSIGHT, WITH A
HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER MINE TOLD ME
WHEN THE STUDENT ASKED, ONE WAS
THE BEGINNING OF THE
ENLIGHTENMENT? SHE SAID I THINK
IT WAS WHEN WILL PIERCE IT
ANYBODY THAT CAN MAKE YOU
BELIEVE ABSURDITIES CAN MAKE YOU
COMMIT ATROCITIES. THERE IS NO
MERIT WHATSOEVER TO ANY OF THE
FREE-SPEECH RHETORIC EMPTY THE
SPEECH CREDITED
RHETORIC HE ATTACKED THE
CONSTITUTION. HE BETRAYED HIS
OATH OF OFFICE. PRESIDENTS DO
NOT HAVE ANY RIGHT TO DO THAT IS
FORBIDDEN. THE PUBLIC MAY
SURVIVE. PEOPLE ARE FAR MORE
IMPORTANT THAN THAT. THE
PRESIDENT ACTING TO CREATE WERE
LEFT ANY FUTURE PRESIDENT TO DO
WHAT HE DID HIS SELF EVIDENTLY
DANGEROUS.
THERE CAN BE NO DOUBT. NONE AT
ALL. THE PRESIDENT LACKS ANY
FIRST AMENDMENT EXCUSE OR
DEFENSE OR ANNUITY OR IMMUNITY.
HE INCITED AND HE INCITED A
VIOLENT INSURRECTION YOU MUST BE
CONVICTED.
NOW
I WILL CALL UP REPRESENTATIVE
DEAN WHO WILL EXPLAIN WHY
CONTRARY TO THE PRESIDENT'S
CLAIM THAT HE PROVIDED ALL THE
PROCESS DUE TO HIM. I'M SORRY
MR. LOU.
&gt;&gt;
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND YOUR
ATTENTION WILL HURT TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS BROUGHT
PART OF TRUMPS EFFORTS TO AVOID
TALKING ABOUT HIS OWN CONDUCT
TOWARD TALKING ABOUT ANYTHING
RELATED TO HIS CRIME, WE EXPECT
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WILL RAISE
PROCESS OBJECTION. DUE PROCESS
CLAIMS ARE WITHOUT MERIT. UNDER
THE CONSTITUTION THE HOUSE HAS
QUOTE THE SOLE POWER OF
IMPEACHMENT. THAT PROVISION
CONFIRMS THAT
HAS FUNCTIONS AS A GRAND JURY OR
PROSECUTOR. THE HOUSE DECIDES
WHETHER TO BRING CHARGES. NOW
ANOTHER
IMPEACHMENT CASE AT THE HOUSE TO
SAY TO CERTAIN PROCEDURAL
PRIVILEGES TO THE PERSON BEING
IMPEACHED. THOSE ARE THAT.
PRIVILEGES. THEY ARE
DISCRETIONARY. THE HOUSE HAS
POWER TO DECIDE ITS OWN RULES.
HOW WANTS TO PAST ARTICLE
OF IMPEACHMENT. IN THIS CASE THE
HOUSE DEBATED THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT AND PASSED IT ON A
BIPARTISAN VOTE. I AM A FORMER
PERSECUTOR I WANT TO ADD, I
DECIDED WE SHOULD
BRING CHARGES PROSECUTORS DON'T
HAVE TO SPEND MONTHS
INVESTIGATING BEFORE THEY BRING
CHARGES. I KNOW IN THIS CASE WE
HAVE HAD HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE THAT
HAVE BEEN ARRESTED AND CHARGED
BY PROSECUTORS FOR THE VIOLENCE
ON JANUARY 6th. THERE WAS NO
REASON FOR THE HOUSE TO WAIT TO
IMPEACH THE MAN AT THE VERY TOP
THAT INCITED THE VIOLENCE. I
WOULD LIKE EMPHASIZE THE HOUSE
AND DID REASON TO MOVE QUICKLY.
THIS WAS BECAUSE OF EXIGENT
CIRCUMSTANCES WAS NOT A CASE
WHERE THERE WAS HIDDEN CONDUCT
OR SOME CONSPIRACY THAT REQUIRES
MONTHS OR YEARS OF
INVESTIGATION. THIS CASE DOES
NOT RAISE COMPLICATED LEGAL
ISSUES. THE GRAVITY OF THE
RESIDENTS CONDUCT
PROVIDED CLEARS RESPONSE FROM
LEGISLATURE. GIVEN THAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS STILL IN OFFICE AT
THE TIME THE HOUSE APPROVED THIS
ARTICLE. RUMORS OF FURTHER
VIOLENCE ECHOED AROUND THE
COUNTRY. THEY STILL DO. THERE
MUST BE NO DOUBT CONGRESS WILL
ACT DECISIVELY AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT THAT
INCITES VIOLENCE AGAINST US.
THAT IS WHY THE HOUSE MOVED
QUICKLY. PRESIDENT
TRUMP WHO CREATED AN EMERGENCY
CANNOT BE HEARD TO COMPLAIN THAT
THE HOUSE IMPEACHED HIM TOO
QUICKLY. ANOTHER POINT ON THE
DUE PROCESS QUESTION. EARLIER IN
THIS TRIAL, RESIDENT TRUMP'S
ATTORNEY SUGGESTED THE HOUSE
SOMEHOW DELIBERATELY DELAYED THE
TRANSMISSION OF THIS ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT. THAT IS NOT
ACCURATE. WHEN THE HOUSE ADOPTED
THIS ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT WE
WERE READY TO BEGIN TRIAL. BUT
THE SENATE IS NOT CONSENTED AT
THE TIME. WHEN WE INQUIRED AS TO
OUR OPTIONS, OFFICIALS TOLD US,
CLEARLY IN NO UNCERTAIN TERMS,
THAT
AS A CLERK OF THE HOUSE
ATTEMPTED TO DELIVER THE ARTICLE
OF IMPEACHMENT TO THE SECRETARY
OF THE SENATE BEFORE THE SENATE
RECONVENED THAT THE CLERK OF THE
HOUSE  WOULD HAVE BEEN TURNED
BACK AT THE DOOR. THAT'S WHY THE
CHILD DID NOT BEGIN THEN. THAT'S
ANOTHER REASON WHY THE
OBJECTIONS OF DUE PROCESS ARE
MERITLESS. FINALLY, LET ME
CONCLUDE, THAT
WE WILL SEE AND HAVE SEEN A FULL
PRESENTATION OF EVIDENCE BY THE
HOUSE, AND YOU'LL HEAR A FULL
PRESENTATION BY PRESIDENT'S
ATTORNEYS WILL ASK QUESTIONS.
THE SENATE HAS THE SOLE POWER TO
TRY ALL IMPEACHMENTS. PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS RECEIVING ANY AND ALL
PROCESS HE IS DUE RIGHT HERE IN
THIS CHAMBER.
THE
&gt;&gt; IN JUST A MOMENT MARK HOLLEY
MR. NEGUSE. IS THAT HE  ENGAGED
IN
HIGH CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS AND
BEFORE MR. NEGUSE COMES UP I
WILL EMPHASIZE WHICH SHOULD BE
AN NONCONTROVERSIAL POINT BUT
IS? UNDERSTAND.  IF WE HAVE
PROVEN TO THE CONDUCT WE HAVE
ALLEGED IN THIS ARTICLE, THEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS INDEED
COMMITTED A HIGH CRIME AND
MISDEMEANOR UNDER THE
CONSTITUTION. UNDER THE
CIRCUMSTANCES IT'S UNDOUBTEDLY
IN THE WORDS OF GEORGE MASON
FROM THE CONSTITUTIONAL
CONVENTION, A GREAT AND
DANGEROUS OFFENSE AGAINST THE
REPUBLIC. INDEED IT IS HARD TO
THINK OF A GREATER OR MORE
DANGEROUS OFFENSE AGAINST THE
REPUBLIC THAN THIS ONE. SO, TO
BE VERY PRECISE ABOUT THIS I
HOPE WE ALL CAN AGREE TODAY,
THAT IF A PRESIDENT DOES NOT
DOES INCITED VIOLENT
INSURRECTION AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT, HE CAN BE IMPEACHED
FOR IT. I HOPE WE ALL CAN AGREE
THAT IS A CRIME. ANOTHER KEY
POINT, WHILE PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
LETTERS MIGHT BE DOING
OTHERWISE, THE QUESTION IS NOT
WHETHER TRUMP COMMITTED A CRIME
UNDER
FEDERAL CODE OR DC LAW OR LAW OF
ANY STATE, IMPEACHMENT DOES NOT
RESULT IN CRIMINAL PENALTIES. AS
WE KEEP EMPHASIZING. NO ONE
SPENT A DAY IN JAIL. THERE ARE
NOT EVEN CRIMINAL OR CIVIL
FINES. CENTURIES OF HISTORY NOT
TO MENTION THE CONSTITUTIONAL
TEXT, STRUCTURE ORIGINAL INTENT
AND UNDERSTANDING ALL CONFIRMED,
TEACHING OF JAMES
WILSON ANOTHER FRAMER THAT WROTE
IMPEACHMENTS AND OFFENSES COME
NOT
WITHIN THE SPHERE OF ORDINARY
JURISPRUDENCE. SIMPLY PUT
IMPEACHMENT IS CREATED FOR A
PURPOSE SEPARATE AND DISTINCT
FROM CRIMINAL PUNISHMENT. IT WAS
CREATED TO PREVENT AND DETER
ELECTED OFFICIALS WHO REPRESENT
AMERICA AND SWORE AN OATH BUT
COMMIT DANGEROUS OFFENSES
AGAINST
OUR REPUBLIC THAT'S A
CONSTITUTIONAL CRIME. SENATORS
WITH GREATER OFFENSE COULD ONE
COMMIT THAN TO INCITE A VIOLENT
INSURRECTION AT OUR SEAT OF
GOVERNMENT DURING THE USEFUL
TRANSFER OF POWER? CIRCUMSTANCES
WHERE VIOLENCE IS FORESEEABLE
AND THE CROWD IS POISED FOR
VIOLENCE TO PROVOKE A MOB OF
THOUSAND TO ATTACK US, WITH
WEAPONS AND OF STICKS AND POLLS,
TO BLUDGEON, AND BE  LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS AND DEFACE
SACRED WALLS AND TRASHED THE
PLACE, AND TO DO SO WHILE
SEEKING TO STOP US FROM
REVEALING OUR OWN DUTIES AND
OATH TO UPHOLD THE CONSTITUTION
BY COUNTING VOTES OUR ELECTIONS?
THEN TO SIT BACK AND WATCH IN
DELIGHT AS INSURRECTIONIST
ATTACK US? VIOLATING THESE
SACRED OATH AND DERELICTION AND
DESERTION OF DUTY? HOW CAN
ASSURE
THE COMMANDER IN CHIEF WILL
DEFEND US IN THE CONSTITUTION IF
WE DO NOT HOLD THE PRESIDENT
ACCOUNTABLE IN A CIRCUMSTANCE
LIKE THIS? WHAT IS IMPEACHABLE
CONDUCT IF NOT THIS? I CHALLENGE
YOU TO THINK ABOUT THIS. IF YOU
THINK THIS IS IMPEACHABLE, WHAT
IS? WHAT WOULD BE? TRUMP LAWYERS
ENFORCE BREATHTAKING ASSERTION
THAT HIS CONDUCT WAS TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE
AND THE SENATE ACQUITS DONALD
TRUMP THAN ANY PRESIDENT COULD
INCITE AND PROVOKE INSURRECTION
OR VIOLENCE AGAINST US AGAIN. IF
YOU DO NOT FIND THIS A HIGH
CRIME AND MISDEMEANOR TODAY, YOU
HAVE SET A NEW TERRIBLE STANDARD
FOR PRESIDENTIAL
MISCONDUCT IN THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA. THE ONLY QUESTION
HERE IS FACTUAL. THE WEEPER OF
DONALD TRUMP WHILE PRESIDENT
INCITED A VIOLENT RESURRECTION
AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT?
INCITEMENT IS IN FACT BASED AND
FACT INTENSIVE
DIRECTIVE. WE COMMEND YOU FOR
YOUR SCRUPULOUS ATTENTION TO
EVERYTHING THAT TOOK PLACE. WE
BELIEVE WE HAVE SHOWN YOU
OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE THAT WOULD
CONVINCE ANYONE USING COMMON
SENSE
THAT THIS WAS INDEED INCITEMENT.
MEANING, DONALD TRUMP'S CONDUCT
ENCOURAGED VIOLENCE. VIOLENCE
WAS STABLE AND HE ACTED
WILLFULLY IN THE ACTIONS THAT
ENCOURAGED VIOLENCE.
MR. NEGUSE WILL TAKE YOU TO THAT
AGAIN. NOT THE WHOLE THING WHERE
ALMOST DONE. WHERE ALMOST DONE
BUT  WE DO NOT WANT TO BE SAID
THEY NEVER APPROVED THIS OR
THAT. BECAUSE, MY
MAGNIFICENT TEAM OF MANAGERS
HAVE STAYED AT NIGHT AFTER NIGHT
AFTER NIGHT FOR WEEKS TO COMPILE
ALL OF THE FACTUAL EVIDENCE. WE
PUT IT BEFORE YOU. WE HAVE PUT
IT BEFORE ALL OF YOU IN THIS
PUBLIC TRIAL. BECAUSE WE LOVE
OUR COUNTRY. WE LOVE OUR COUNTRY
THAT MUCH.
MR. NEGUSE WILL SHOW YOU WE HAVE
PROVEN OUR CASE. PRESIDENT TRUMP
COMMITTED THIS IMPEACHABLE
OFFENSE THAT WE IMPEACH HIM FOR
JANUARY 13th. YOU SHOULD CONVICT
HIM. WHEN HE IS FINISHED I WILL
RETURN AND EXPLAIN WHY IT IS
DANGEROUS FOR US TO IGNORE THIS.
WHY YOU MUST CONVICT AND THEN WE
WILL REST.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT AND DISTINGUISH
SENATORS GOOD AFTERNOON AGAIN. I
KNOW IT HAS BEEN A LONG FEW
DAYS. I WANT TO SAY THANK YOU WE
ARE VERY GRATEFUL FOR YOUR
PATIENCE AND YOUR ATTENTION AND
THE ATTENTION YOU PAID YOU EVERY
ONE OF OUR MANAGERS THAT HAVE
PRESENTED OUR CASE. AS LEAD
MANAGER RASKIN MENTIONED, I HOPE
AND TRUST WE CAN ALL AGREE THAT
THE PRESIDENT THAT INCITED
VIOLENT INSURRECTION AGAINST OUR
GOVERNMENT THAT THAT IS
IMPEACHABLE. SO WHAT I'D LIKE TO
DO IS AS WE CLOSE OUR CASE, IS
WALK YOU THROUGH WIRE EVIDENT
OVERWHELMINGLY ESTABLISHES THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP COMMITTED THAT
OFFENSE. AS YOU CONSIDER THAT
QUESTION, THAT QUESTION OF
WHETHER THE PRESIDENT INCITED AN
INSTRUCTION THERE ARE THREE
QUESTIONS THAT REASONABLY COME
TO MIND. WAS VIOLENCE
PERCEIVABLE? DID HE ENCOURAGE
VIOLENCE? DID HE ACT WILLFULLY?
I AM GOING TO SHOW YOU WHY THE
ANSWER TO EVERY ONE OF THOSE
QUESTION HAS TO BE, YES. FIRST,
LET'S START WITH FORESEEABILITY.
WAS IT FORESEEABLE THAT THE
VIOLENCE WOULD ARRIVE ON JANUARY
6th IF PRESIDENT TRUMP LIT A
SPARK? WAS IT PREDICTABLE THAT
THE CROWD AT THE SAME AMERICA
RALLY WAS POISED ON A
HAIRTRIGGER FOR VIOLENCE, THAT
THEY WOULD FIGHT, LITERALLY IF
PROVOKED TO DO SO? OF COURSE IT
WAS. WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP STOOD
UP TO THAT PODIUM ON JANUARY 6,
HE KNEW THAT MANY IN THE CROWD
WERE INFLAMED AND WERE ARMED AND
WERE READY FOR VIOLENCE.
IT WAS AN EXPLOSIVE SITUATION.
HE KNEW IT. WE HAVE SHOWN YOU
THE EVIDENCE ON THIS POINT. YOU
HAVE SEEN IT. THE IMAGES, THEY
HAVE VIDEOED THE ARTICLES AND
PATTERN THAT SHOW THE VIOLENCE
ON THAT TERRIBLE DAY WAS
ENTIRELY PERCEIVABLE. WE HAVE
SHOWED YOU HOW THIS ALL BEGAN
WITH THE BIG LIE, THE CLAIMED
ELECTION WAS RIGGED AND THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND HIS
SUPPORTERS WERE THE VICTIMS OF
THE MASSIVE FRAUD. MASSIVE
CONSPIRACY TO RIP AWAY THEIR
VOTES. WE HAVE SHOWED YOU HOW
RESIDENT TRUMP SPREAD THAT LIE.
AND OVER THE COURSE OF MONTHS
WITH HIS SUPPORT AND
ENCOURAGEMENT, IT INFLAMED HIS
MOP RESULTING IN REAL-WORLD
VIOLENCE, DEATH THREATS AND
INCREASINGLY EXTREME CALLS TO
STOP THE STEEL. WE ESTABLISHED
AFTER HE LOST THE ELECTION, THE
PRESIDENT WAS WILLING TO DO JUST
ABOUT ANYTHING TO PREVENT THE
PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF POWER. HE
TRIED EVERYTHING HE COULD DO TO
STOP IT. YOU'LL RECALL THE
EVIDENCE ON THE SCREEN. HIM
PRESSURING AND CREDITING STATE
ELECTION OFFICIALS. ATTACKING
THEM, TO THE POINT OF CALLING
THEM ENEMIES OF THE STATE
THREATENING AT LEAST ONE OF THEM
WITH CRIMINAL PENALTIES. THEN,
ATTACKING SENATORS, MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS. PRESSURING THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT PROMPTING OUTCRIES
FROM ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEYS,
NOT TO MENTION HIS OWN ATTORNEY
GENERAL. REPORTEDLY TELLING HIM
THE STONE ELECTION CLAIMS WERE
BS.
NOT MY PHRASE, HIS. AND THEN, AS
JANUARY 6th APPROACHED, HE MOVED
ON TO ATTACKING ZONE VICE
PRESIDENT AND OPENLY AND
SAVAGELY. WE WERE COUNTED
THROUGHOUT THAT ENTIRE PERIOD,
ALL THE WAY THROUGH WHICH
PRESIDENT TRUMP INFLAMED HIS
SUPPORTERS WITH LIES THAT THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN. AS EVERY
SINGLE ONE OF US KNOWS, NOTHING
IN THIS COUNTRY IS MORE SACRED
NOTHING, THEN OUR RIGHT TO VOTE.
OUR VOICE AND HERE YOU HAVE
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES TELLING HIS SUPPORTERS
THAT THEIR VOICE, THEIR RIGHTS
AS AMERICANS WERE BEING STOLEN
FROM THEM. WHIPPED AWAY. THAT
MADE THEM ANGRY. ANGRY AND A TO
STOP THE STEAL . TO FIGHT LIKE
HELL TO STOP THE STEAL.  YOU SAW
THIS. SO HE DO THIS OVER AND
OVER AGAIN WITH THE SAME MESSAGE
EACH TIME. YOU MUST FIGHT TO WIN
IT BACK. YOU MUST NEVER
SURRENDER. NO MATTER WHAT.
REMEMBER, EACH TIME HIS
SUPPORTERS ALONG THE WAY SHOWED
VIOLENCE, HE ENDORSED IT. HE
ENCOURAGED IT. HE PRAISED IT.
ALL PART OF THAT SAME DEMAND TO
STOP THE STEAL AND FIGHT LIKE
HELL. REMEMBER?  YOU REMEMBER
THE VIDEO THAT WE SHOWED YOU
FROM TEXAS? SOME OF THE
SUPPORTERS SUPPORTING A BUS OF
CAMPAIGN WORKERS ON HIGHWAY?
PEOPLE EASILY COULD HAVE BEEN
KILLED. EASILY. WHAT DID HE DO?
HE TWEETED IT AND MADE A JOKE
ABOUT IT AT A RALLY. HE CALLED
THEM PATRIOTS. HE HELD THEM OUT
AS AN EXAMPLE.
THIS IS WHAT IT MEANS TO STOP
THE STEAL. WHEN HE TOLD  THE
SUPPORTERS TO STOP THE STEAL
THEY TOOK UP ARMS  TO LITERALLY
INTIMIDATE OFFICIALS TO OVERTURN
ELECTION RESULTS YOU SAW THE
EVIDENCE. SO DID HE. HE WELCOMED
IT. WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP
ATTACKED GEORGIA SECRETARY OF
STATE FOR CERTIFYING THE
RESULTS, HIS SUPPORTERS SENT
DEATH THREATS. YOU SAW THOSE IN
GREAT DETAIL FROM MANAGER DEAN.
WHAT DID HE DO? HE ATTACKED THE
ELECTION OFFICIALS FURTHER. WHEN
HIS SUPPORTERS GATHERED TOGETHER
TO HAVE A SECOND MILLION
MEGA RALLY THAT'S THE RALLY
ABOUT THE STOLEN ELECTION HE
TWEETED THE FIGHT HAD JUST
BEGUN. WHAT HAPPENED NEXT? IT
ISN'T ROCKET SCIENCE. FIGHTS
BROKE OUT. STABBINGS AND SERIES
VIOLENCE.
NOW, PRESIDENT TRUMP LIKE ALL OF
US, HE SAW WHAT HAPPENED AT THAT
RALLY. HE SAW ALL OF THE
VIOLENCE AND THE BURNINGS AND
CHAOS. HOW DID HE RESPOND? HE
TREATED
PRAISE OF THE EVENTS AND THEN
YOU SEE IT ON THE SCREEN HE
BOUGHT $50 MILLION. $50 MILLION
WORTH OF ADS TO FURTHER PROMOTE
HIS MESSAGE TO THOSE EXACT SAME
THINGS. HE IMMEDIATELY
FORCES WITH THE VERY SAME GROUP
. HE JOINED FORCES WITH THE SAME
PEOPLE THAT HAD JUST ERUPTED
INTO VIOLENCE.
WAS VIOLENCE PERCEIVABLE AND
PREDICTABLE?
ABSOLUTELY. THIS IS NOT JUST
CLEAR LOOKING BACK IN TIME IT
WAS WIDELY RECOGNIZED AT THE
TIME. IN THE DAYS LEADING UP TO
JANUARY 6th, THERE WERE DOZENS,
HUNDREDS OF WARNINGS. HE KNEW
IT. HE KNEW THE RALLY WOULD
EXPLODE.
PROVOKED. HE KNEW ALL IT WOULD
TAKE IS A SLIGHT PUSH. REMEMBER,
YOU HEARD FROM MANAGER PLASKETT,
THE CHATTER ON SOCIAL MEDIA
WEBSITES, THE TRUMP CONNORS
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION IT
SHOWED THE PEOPLE HE INVITED TO
THE GENERAL SIX I TOOK THIS AS A
SERIOUS CALL TO ARMS
. THAT THIS WAS NOT JUST ANY
ATTACK. IT WAS TO STORM THE
CAPITAL IF NECESSARY. STOP THE
STEAL WAS NOT JUST CLEAR THE
WEBSITES. THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION WAS MONITORING
THE FBI ISSUED REPORTS ABOUT
THIS IS A CREDIBLE THREAT. A
THREAT TO TARGET US.  LAW
ENFORCEMENT MADE SIX ARRESTS
THAT NIGHT. SIX ARRESTS.
NEWSPAPERS ACROSS THE CITY
WARNED OF THE RISK OF VIOLENCE.
THERE CAN BE NO DOUBT THAT THE
RISK OF VIOLENCE WAS
FORESEEABLE. WHAT DID HE DO IN
THE DAYS LEADING UP TO
RALLY? DID HE CALL ME SITUATION?
ASK YOURSELF. DID HE CALL FOR
PEACE? NO.
HE DID NOT DO THAT. HE SPREAD
HIS BIG LIE MORE. THE MOST
DANGEROUS LIE, AS I MENTIONED
AMERICA'S VOTES WERE STOLEN IN
THE FINAL ACT OF THEFT WOULD
OCCUR HERE IN THE CAPITAL. THEN
HE ASSEMBLED THOSE SUPPORTERS.
HE INVITED THEM
TO AN ORGANIZED EVENT ON A
SPECIFIC DAY AT A SPECIFIC TIME
MATCHED PERFECTLY TO COINCIDE
WITH THE JOINT SESSION OF
CONGRESS TO COINCIDE WITH THE
STEAL THAT HE HAD TOLD THEM TO
STOP.  AGAIN, HE WAS TOLD BY LAW
ENFORCEMENT AND ALL OVER THE
NEWS THAT THESE PEOPLE WERE
ARMED AND READY FOR REAL
VIOLENCE. HE KNEW IT. HE KNEW IT
PERFECTLY WELL. HE HAD CREATED
THIS POWDER CAKE AT HIS RALLY.
HE KNEW HOW COMBUSTIBLE THAT
SITUATION WAS. HE KNEW THERE
WERE PEOPLE BEFORE HIM WHO HAD
PREPARED OR ARMED AND ARMORED.
SHE KNEW THEY WOULD JUMP TO
VIOLENCE AT ANY SIGNAL, AT ANY
SIGN FROM HIM THAT HE NEEDED
THEM TO FIGHT. HE NEEDED THEM TO
STOP THE STEAL. WE ALL KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED THEN.  SECOND QUESTION.
DID HE ENCOURAGED TO VIOLENCE?
STANDING IN THAT POWDER CANE,
DID HE LIGHT A MATCH? EVERYONE
KNOWS THE ANSWER TO THAT
QUESTION. THE HOURS OF VIDEO YOU
HAVE WATCHED LEAVE NO DOUBT.
REMEMBER, WHAT HE SAID ON
JANUARY 6th.
PAYMENT ALL OF US HERE TODAY DO
NOT WANT TO SEE THE ELECTION
VICTORY
DALEN. IT IS PURE THEFT IN
AMERICAN HISTORY. EVERYBODY
KNOWS IT. MAKE NO MISTAKE THE
SELECTION WAS STOLEN FROM YOU,
FROM ME FROM THE COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; AT THE OPENING,
&gt;&gt;
WE WILL NEVER GIVE UP. WE WILL
NEVER CONCEDE. YOU DO NOT
CONCEDE WHAT IS A THEFT. TO USE
A FAVORITE TERM THAT ALL OF YOU
PEOPLE CAME UP WITH, WE WILL
STOP THE STEAL  WE WILL STOP THE
STEAL . WE WILL NOT LET THEM
SILENCE YOUR VOICES WE WILL NOT
LET IT HAPPEN. NOT GOING TO LET
IT HAPPEN.
THANK YOU. YOU HAVE TO GET YOUR
PEOPLE TO FIGHT. BECAUSE YOU
WILL NEVER TAKE BACK OUR COUNTRY
WITH WEAKNESS. YOU HAVE TO SHOW
STRENGTH AND YOU HAVE TO BE
STRONG. WE FIGHT WE FIGHT LIKE
HELL. IF YOU DO NOT FIGHT LIKE
HELL, YOU WILL NOT HAVE A
COUNTRY ANYMORE.
YOU MAY REMEMBER AT THE OUTSET
OF THIS TRIAL. I TOLD YOU YOU
WOULD HEAR THREE PHRASES OVER
AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN. THE BIG
LIE, THAT THE ELECTION HAD BEEN
STOLEN, AND STOP THE STEAL  AND
NEVER CONCEDE. FIGHT LIKE HELL.
FIGHT LIKE HELL TO STOP THAT
STEAL. YOU HEARD THOSE PHRASES
THROUGHOUT THE COURSE OF THE
TRIAL AND STATEMENT AFTER
STATEMENT TELLING HIS SUPPORTERS
THEY SHOULD BE PATRIOTS. FIGHT
HARD TO STOP THE STEAL . ON THAT
DAY, THAT DAY, WHERE THE KEY
DIRECT THE CROWDS IRE? HE
DIRECTED THEM HERE TO CONGRESS.
HE QUITE LITERALLY AT ONE PART
OF THAT SPEECH POINTED AT US. HE
TOLD THEM TO
AND IF YOU DO NOT FIGHT LIKE
HELL YOU WILL NOT HAVE A COUNTRY
ANYMORE. HERE'S THE THING, IT
WAS NOT RHETORICAL. HE HAD
ALREADY MADE IT PERFECTLY CLEAR.
HE MEANT IT. THAT WHEN FOLLOWERS
IN FACT THOUGHT, WHEN ENGAGED IN
VIOLENCE AND HE HONORED THEM,
PATRIOTS. HE IMPLIED, IT WAS
OKAY TO BREAK THE LAW BECAUSE
THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN. YOU
HEARD IT. YOU REMEMBER THE CLIP
THAT DEAN SHOWED YOU EARLIER IN
THE TRIAL. HE TOLD THEM, THE
QUOTE IS ON-SCREEN. WHEN YOU
CATCH SOMEBODY IN A FRAUD, YOU
ARE ALLOWED TO GO BY VERY
DIFFERENT RULES. REMEMBER HOW
ALL OF HIS SUPPORTERS
SOME OF HIS SUPPORTERS ACROSS
SOCIAL MEDIA WERE TWEETING THIS
AS A WAR TALK ABOUT  BRINGING IN
THE CALVARY? PRESIDENT TRUMP
MADE CLEAR, WHAT THOSE DIFFERENT
RULES WERE. HE HAD BEEN MAKING
IT CLEAR FOR MONTHS,
&gt;&gt; SO, LET'S HAVE TRIAL
COMBAT.
RUDY, YOU DID A GREAT JOB HE HAS
GOT GOT
. YOU KNOW WHAT? HE HAS GOT
GUTS. LIKE A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY HE HAS GOT
GUTS. HE FIGHTS.
&gt;&gt; THIS MESSAGE WAS CRYSTAL
CLEAR. IT WAS UNDERSTOOD
IMMEDIATELY. INSTANTLY. BY HIS
FOLLOWERS.
GUESS. WE DON'T HAVE TO GUESS AS
TO HOW THEY REACTED. WE CAN LOOK
AT HOW PEOPLE REACTED TO WHAT HE
SAID. YOU SAW. YOU SAW THE
VIOLENCE. IT'S PRETTY SIMPLE. HE
SAID IT AND THEY DID IT.
WE KNOW THIS BECAUSE, HE TOLD
US. THEY TOLD US IN REAL TIME
DURING THE ATTACK. YOU SAW THE
UPDATED
, THE INTERVIEWS ON SOCIAL
MEDIA, LIVE TV. THEY WERE DOING
THIS FOR HIM. BECAUSE HE ASKED
THEM. THE WAS NOT JUST
INSURRECTIONIST WHO CONFIRMED
THIS. MANY, MANY PEOPLE
INCLUDING CURRENT AND FORMER
OFFICIALS IMMEDIATELY RECOGNIZED
THE PRESIDENT HAD INCITED THE
CROWD. HE ALONE WAS CAPABLE OF
STOPPING THE VIOLENCE. HE DID
THIS AND HE HAD TO CALL IT OFF,
BECAUSE HE WAS THE ONLY ONE WHO
COULD. LET'S SEE WHAT
REPRESENTATIVE McCARTHY,
REPRESENTATIVE GALLAGHER, CHRIS
CRISTI, REPRESENTATIVE CAN
FIGURE,
HAD TO SAY.
&gt;&gt;
PEOPLE ARE GETTING HURT. ANYBODY
INVOLVED IN THIS
HIM A LOT AND CLEAR. THIS IS NOT
THE AMERICAN WAY. MR. PRESIDENT
YOU HAVE GOT TO STOP THIS.
YOU'RE THE ONLY PERSON WHO CAN
CALL THIS OFF. CALL IT OFF. IT'S
PRETTY SIMPLE. THE PRESIDENTTHE
PRESIDENT CAUSED THIS PROTEST TO
OCCUR.,  HE'S THE HE'S ONLY
FEELING ONE WANTED THAT TO CAN
MAKE MAKE A IT STOP.STOP.
THE MAC WITH THE PRESIDENT SAYS
IS NOT GOOD ENOUGH, HE HAS TO
COME OUT AND TELL HIS SUPPORTERS
TO LEAVE THE CAPITAL GROUNDS,
AND TO ALLOW THE CONGRESS TO DO
THEIR BUSINESS PEACEFULLY AND
ANYTHING SHORT OF THAT IS
A NAVIGATION OF HIS
RESPONSIBILITY.
&gt;&gt; A GUY THAT KNOWS HOW TO TREAT
TWEET. AGGRESSIVELY ON TWITTER
--
&gt;&gt; THE PRESENCE, ON SOCIAL MEDIA
AND IN HIS SPEECH THAT DAY. HE
DELIBERATELY PROMOTED FACELESS
THEORIES CREATING A COMBUSTIBLE
ENVIRONMENT OF MISINFORMATION
AND DIVISION
TO ALLOW THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES TO INCITE THIS
ATTACK WITHOUT CONSEQUENCES IS A
DIRECT THREAT TO THE FUTURE OF
THIS DEMOCRACY.
&gt;&gt; DID THE PRESIDENT ENCOURAGE
VIOLENCE? YES. NO DOUBT THAT HE
DID. FINAL QUESTION
. DID THE PRESIDENT ACT
WILLFULLY IN HIS ACTIONS THAT
ENCOURAGED VIOLENCE?
WELL, LET'S LOOK AT THE FACTS.
HE STOOD BEFORE AN ARMED, ANGRY
CROWD, KNOWN TO BE READY FOR
VIOLENCE AT HIS PROVOCATION, AND
WHAT DID HE DO? HE PROVOKES
THEM. HE AIMED THEM HERE AND
TOLD THEM TO FIGHT LIKE  AND
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT THEY DID.
AND HIS CONDUCT THROUGHOUT THE
REST OF THAT TERRIBLE DAY REALLY
ONLY CONFIRMS THAT HE ACTED
WILLFULLY. THAT HE INCITED THE
CROWD AND ENGAGED IN A
DERELICTION OF DUTY WHILE HE
CONTINUED INFLAMING THE VIOLENCE
. AND AGAIN, WE DON'T HAVE TO
GUESS WHAT HE THOUGHT BECAUSE HE
TOLD US. REMEMBER THE VIDEO HE
RELEASED AT 4:17 P.M., LEAD
MANAGER RASKIN
SHOWED THAT TO YOU YESTERDAY,
THE ONE WHERE HE SAID, WE HAD AN
ELECTION THAT WAS STOLEN FROM
US, REMEMBER THE TWEET THAT HE
PUT OUT, JUST A COUPLE OF HOURS
LATER, 6:01 P.M., YOU'VE SEEN IT
MANY TIMES. YOU COULD SEE IT ON
THE SLIDE, THAT THESE ARE THE
THINGS THAT HAPPEN WHEN A SACRED
LANDSLIDE ELECTION VICTORY IS SO
VICIOUSLY STRIPPED AWAY
. THAT IS WHAT HE WAS FOCUSED
ON. SPREADING THE BIG LIE, AND
PRAISING THE MOB THAT ATTACKED
US AND OUR GOVERNMENT. YOU HEARD
MANAGER SICILY
DESCRIBE REPORTS THAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS DELIGHTED,
ENTHUSIASTIC THAT OTHERS DIDN'T
SHARE HIS EXCITEMENT AS HE
WATCHED IT UNFOLD ON TV? HE
CARED MORE ABOUT
PRESSING HIS EFFORTS TO OVERTURN
THE ELECTION ABOUT
THEN HE DID ABOUT SAVING LIVES,
OUR LIVES. LOOK AT WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID THAT DAY
AFTER THE RALLY. IT'S IMPORTANT.
HE DID VIRTUALLY NOTHING.
MANAGER CASTRO MENTIONED THIS,
THAT WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTS
TO STOP SOMETHING HE DOES SO,
SIMPLY, EASILY, QUICKLY. THAT
ASIDE FROM FOUR TWEETS
AND A SHORT CLIP DURING THE OVER
FIVE HOUR-LONG ATTACK, HE DID
NOTHING.
ON JANUARY 6, HE DIDN'T CONDEMN
THE ATTACK, HE DIDN'T CONDEMN
THE ATTACKERS, DIDN'T SAY THAT
HE WOULD SEND HELP TO DEFEND US,
OR DEFEND LAW ENFORCEMENT
. HE DIDN'T REACT TO THE
VIOLENCE WITH SHOCK OR OR HOLDER
AS WE DID, HE DIDN'T IMMEDIATELY
RUSH TO TWITTER AND DEMAND IN
THE CLEAREST
POSSIBLE TERMS THAT THE MOB
DISPERSED, THAT THEY STOP IT,
THAT THEY RETREAT, INSTEAD, HE
ISSUED MESSAGES IN THE AFTERNOON
THAT SIDED WITH THEM. THE
INSURRECTIONISTS WHO HAD LEFT
POLICE OFFICERS BATTERED AND
BLOODIED
. HE REACTED EXACTLY THE WAY
SOMEONE WOULD REACT IF THEY WERE
DELIGHTED. AND EXACTLY UNLIKE
HOW A PERSON WOULD REACT IF THEY
WERE ANGRY AT HOW THEIR
FOLLOWERS WERE ACTING
. AGAIN, ASK YOURSELF HOW MANY
LIVES WOULD HAVE BEEN SAVED, HOW
MUCH PAIN AND TRAUMA WOULD HAVE
BEEN AVOIDED, IF HE HAD REACTED
THE WAY THAT A PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES IS SUPPOSED TO ACT
. THERE ARE TWO PARTS OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S FAILURE HERE,
HIS DERELICTION OF DUTY, THAT I
JUST HAVE TO EMPHASIZE FOR A
MOMENT. FIRST, IS WHAT HE DID TO
VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE
, THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. HIS
OWN VICE PRESIDENT. HE WAS IN
THIS BUILDING, WITH AN ARMED MOB
SHOUTING, HANG HIM. THE SAME
ARMED BOB
THAT SET OUT GALLOWS OUTSIDE,
YOU SAW THOSE PICTURES. AND WHAT
DID PRESIDENT TRUMP DO? HE
ATTACKS THE MORE, HE SINGLED HIM
OUT BY NAME. IT'S HONESTLY HARD
TO FATHOM
. SECOND, OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT.
THE BRAVE OFFICERS
WHO WERE SACRIFICING THEIR LIVES
TO DEFEND US, WHO COULD NOT
EVACUATE OR SEEK COVER BECAUSE
THEY WERE PROTECTING US, I'M NOT
GOING TO GO THROUGH AGAIN WHAT
MY FELLOW MANAGER SHOWED YOU
YESTERDAY. LET ME JUST SAY THIS.
THOSE OFFICERS SERVE US
FAITHFULLY AND DUTIFULLY, AND
THEY FOLLOW THEIR OATH'S. THEY
DESERVE A PRESIDENT WHO UPHOLD
HIS, WHO WOULD NOT RISK THEIR
LIVES AND SAFETY TO RETAIN
POWER, A PRESIDENT WHO WOULD
PRESERVE, PROTECT AND DEFEND
THEM. THAT'S NOT WHAT HE DID.
WHEN THEY, THE POLICE, STILL
BARRICADED AND BEING ATTACKED
WITH POLLS
, HE SAID IN HIS VIDEO, TO THE
PEOPLE ATTACKING THEM, WE LOVE
YOU. YOU ARE VERY SPECIAL. WHAT
MORE COULD
TO KNOW ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
STATE OF MIND?
SENATORS, THE EVIDENCE IS CLEAR
, WE'VE SHOWN YOU STATEMENTS,
VIDEOS, AFFIDAVITS, THAT PROVE
PRESIDENT TRUMP INCITED AN
INSURRECTION. AN INSURRECTION
THAT HE ALONE HAD THE POWER TO
STOP
. IN THE FACT THAT HE DIDN'T
STOP IT, THE FACT THAT HE
INCITED A LAWLESS ATTACK AND
ABDICATED HIS DUTY TO DEFEND US
FROM IT, THE FACT THAT HE
ACTUALLY FURTHER INFLAMED THE
MOB, FURTHER INFLAMED THAT
MODEL, ATTACKING HIS VICE
PRESIDENT WHILE ASSASSINS WERE
PURSUING HIM, IN THIS CAPITAL
MORE THAN REQUIRES CONVICTION
AND DISQUALIFICATION. WE HUMBLY
HUMBLY ASK YOU TO CONVICT
PRESIDENT TRUMP FOR THE CRIME
FOR WHICH HE IS OVERWHELMINGLY
GUILTY OF
, BECAUSE IF YOU DON'T, IF WE
ATTEND THIS DIDN'T HAPPEN OR
WORSE, IF WE LET IT GO
UNANSWERED, WHO IS TO SAY IT
WOULDN'T HAPPEN AGAIN?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE, FIRST OF ALL, THANK YOU
FOR YOUR CLOSE ATTENTION AND
SERIOUSNESS OF PURPOSE THAT YOU
HAVE DEMONSTRATED OVER THE LAST
FEW DAYS, THANK YOU ALSO FOR
YOUR COURTESY TO THE HOUSE
MANAGERS, AS WE HAVE COME OVER
HERE, STRANGERS IN A STRANGE
LAND, TO MAKE HER CASE BEFORE
THIS DISTINGUISHED BODY. WE ARE
ABOUT TO CLOSE AND I AM PROUD
THAT OUR MANAGERS HAVE BEEN SO
DISCIPLINED AND SO FOCUSED, I
THINK WE ARE CLOSING SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN
5 TO 6 HOURS UNDER THE TIME THAT
YOU HAVE ALLOTTED TO US. BUT WE
THINK WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO TELL
YOU EVERYTHING WE NEED TO SAY,
HE WILL OBVIOUSLY HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS THE
QUESTIONS AND TO DO A FINAL
CLOSING, WHEN WE GET THERE. I
JUST WANTED TO LEAVE YOU WITH A
FEW THOUGHTS AND AGAIN, I'M NOT
GOING TO READ TRAUMATIZED YOU BY
GOING THROUGH THE EVIDENCE ONCE
AGAIN, I JUST WANTED TO LEAVE
YOU WITH A FEW THOUGHTS TO
CONSIDER, AS YOU ENTER UPON THIS
VERY HIGH AND DIFFICULT DUTY
THAT YOU HAVE TO RENDER
IMPARTIAL JUSTICE IN THIS CASE,
AS YOU OF ALL SWORN TO DO. AND I
WANTED TO START SIMPLY BY
SAYING, THAT IN THE HISTORY OF
HUMANITY, DEMOCRACY IS AN
EXTREMELY RARE AND FRAGILE AND
PRECARIOUS AND TRANSITORY THING.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN KNEW THAT WHEN
HE SPOKE FROM THE BATTLEFIELD
AND VOWED THAT GOVERNMENT OF THE
PEOPLE AND FOR THE PEOPLE SHALL
NOT PERISH FROM THE EARTH, BUT
HE WAS SPEAKING NOT LONG AFTER
THE REPUBLIC WAS CREATED
AND HE WAS TRYING TO PROVE THAT
POINT, THAT WE WOULD NOT ALLOW
IT TO PERISH FROM THE EARTH. FOR
MOST OF HISTORY, THE NORM HAS
BEEN DICTATORS, AUTOCRATS,
BULLIES, DESPOTS, TYRANTS,
COWARDS, WHO TAKE OVER OUR
GOVERNMENT. FOR MOST OF THE
HISTORY OF THE WORLD, AND THAT
IS WHY AMERICA IS SUCH A
MIRACLE.
WE WERE FOUNDED ON THE
EXTRAORDINARY PRINCIPLES OF
INALIENABLE RIGHTS OF THE PEOPLE
AND THE CONSENT OF THE GOVERNED,
AND THE FUNDAMENTAL EQUALITY OF
ALL OF US.
YOU KNOW, WHEN LINCOLN SAID,
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE,
BY THE PEOPLE AND FOR THE PEOPLE
AND HE HARKENS BACK TO THE
DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE WHEN
HE SAID FOURSCORE AND SEVEN
YEARS AGO, HE KNEW THAT WASN'T
HOW WE STARTED, WE STARTED HIM
PERFECTLY, WE STARTED AS A SLAVE
REPUBLIC, LINCOLN KNEW THAT, BUT
HE WAS STRUGGLING TO MAKE THE
COUNTRY BETTER. AND HOWEVER
FLAWED THE FATHERS WERE AS MEN
IN THEIR TIMES, THEY INSCRIBED
IN THE DECLARATION OF
INDEPENDENCE AND THE
CONSTITUTION, ALL OF THE
BEAUTIFUL PRINCIPLES THAT WE
NEEDED TO OPEN AMERICA UP, TWO
SUCCESSIVE WAVES OF POLITICAL
STRUGGLE AND CONSTITUTIONAL
CHANGE
AND TRANSFORMATION IN THE
COUNTRY, SO WE REALLY WOULD
BECOME SOMETHING MUCH MORE LIKE
LINCOLN'S BEAUTIFUL VISION OF
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE, BY THE
PEOPLE AND FOR THE PEOPLE, THE
WORLD'S GREATEST MULTIRACIAL,
MULTI-RELIGIOUS, MULTIETHNIC
CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY, THE
ENVY OF THE WORLD
AS TOM PAINE SAID, AN ASYLUM FOR
HUMANITY, WHERE PEOPLE WOULD
COME. THINK ABOUT THE PREAMBLE,
THE FIRST
THREE WORDS PREGNANT WITH SO
MUCH MEANING. WE THE PEOPLE. AND
THEN, ALL OF THE PURPOSES OF OUR
GOVERNMENT PUT INTO THAT ONE
ACTION-PACKED SENTENCED. WE THE
PEOPLE, IN ORDER TO FORM A MORE
PERFECT
UNION, ESTABLISH JUSTICE,
PROVIDE FOR THE COMMON DEFENSE,
PROMOTE THE GENERAL WHERE
WELFARE AND PRESERVE TO
OURSELVES AND OUR POSTERITY THE
BLESSINGS OF LIBERTY. AND THEN,
RIGHT AFTER THAT FIRST SENTENCE,
THE MISSION STATEMENT IN THE
CONSTITUTION
, WHAT HAPPENS? ARTICLE 1, THE
CONGRESS IS CREATED. ALL
LEGISLATIVE POWERS HEREIN, ARE
RESERVED TO THE CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES. DO YOU SEE WHAT
JUST HAPPENED? THE SOVEREIGN
POWER OF THE PEOPLE, TO LAUNCH
THE COUNTRY AND CREATE THE
CONSTITUTION, FLOWED RIGHT INTO
CONGRESS AND THEN, YOU GET AN
ARTICLE 1 SECTION 8,
COMPREHENSIVE VAST POWERS THAT
ALL OF YOU KNOW
SO WELL. THE POWER TO REGULATE,
CONGRESS, DOMESTICALLY AND
INTERNATIONALLY, THE POWER TO
DECLARE WAR, THE POWER TO RAISE
BUDGETS AND TAXES AND
TO SPEND MONEY, THE POWER TO
GOVERN THE SEAT OF GOVERNMENT
AND ON AND ON AND ON AND
IN CLAUSE 18, ALL OTHER POWERS
NECESSARY AND PROPER TO THE
EXECUTION OF THE FOREGOING
POWERS, THAT'S ALL OF US, AND
THEN YOU GET TO ARTICLE 2, THE
PRESIDENT, FOR SHORT PARAGRAPHS.
IN THE FOURTH PARAGRAPH IS ALL
ABOUT WHAT? IMPEACHMENT, HOW YOU
GET RID OF THE PRESIDENT WHO
COMMITS
HIGH CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS BUT
WHAT IS THE CORE JOB OF THE
PRESIDENT? TO TAKE CARE THAT THE
LAWS ARE FAITHFULLY EXECUTED.
OUR FRAMERS WERE SO FEARFUL
OF PRESIDENTS BECOMING TYRANTS
AND WANTING TO BECOME KINGS AND
DESPOTS THAT THEY PUT THE OATH
OF OFFICE RIGHT INTO THE
CONSTITUTION, THEY INSCRIBED IT
INTO THE CONSTITUTION TO
PRESERVE, PROTECT AND DEFEND THE
CONSTITUTION.
WE'VE GOT THE POWER TO IMPEACH
THE PRESIDENT, THE POWER DOESN'T
HAVE THE POWER TO IMPEACH US,
THINK ABOUT THAT.
THE POPULAR BRANCH OF GOVERNMENT
HAS THE POWER TO IMPEACH THE
PRESIDENT, THE PRESIDENT DOES
NOT HAVE THE POWER TO IMPEACH
US. AND AS I SAID BEFORE, ALL OF
US WHO ASPIRE TO PUBLIC OFFICE
ARE NOTHING BUT THE SERVANTS OF
THE PEOPLE IN THE MOMENT THAT WE
NO LONGER ACT AS SERVANTS OF THE
PEOPLE BUT AS MASTERS OF THE
PEOPLE, THAT WAS THE TIME
TO IMPEACH, REMOVE, CONVICT,
DISQUALIFY, START ALL OVER
AGAIN, BECAUSE, THE INTEREST OF
THE PEOPLE ARE SO MUCH GREATER
THAN THE INTEREST OF ONE PERSON,
ANY ONE PERSON, EVEN THE
GREATEST PERSON IN THE COUNTRY,
THE INTEREST OF THE PEOPLE ARE
WHAT COUNTS. NOW, WHEN WE SIT
DOWN AND WE CLOSE
, OUR DISTINGUISHED
COUNTERPARTS, THE COUNSEL WHO
HAVE WAITED VERY PATIENTLY, AND
THANK YOU, WILL STAND UP AND
SEEK TO DEFEND THE PRESIDENT'S
CONDUCT ON THE FACT.
AS I THINK THEY WILL, IT'S
ALREADY BEEN DECIDED BY THE
SENATE, ON TUESDAY, THAT THE
SENATE HAS CONSTITUTIONAL
JURISDICTION
OVER THIS IMPEACHMENT CASE
BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE UNITED
STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
SO, WE HAVE PUT THAT
JURISDICTIONAL CONSTITUTIONAL
ISSUE TO BED. IT'S OVER, IT'S
ALREADY BEEN VOTED ON THE STATE
TRIAL IN THE FACTS OF WHAT
HAPPENED.
INCITEMENT, AS WE SAID, IS A
FACT INTENSIVE INVESTIGATION AND
JUDGMENT THAT EACH OF YOU WILL
HAVE TO MAKE.
WE'VE MADE OUR VERY BEST EFFORT
TO SET FORTH EVERY SINGLE
RELEVANT FACTS THAT WE KNOW IN
THE MOST OBJECTIVE AND HONEST
LIGHT. THE TRUST AND WE HOPE
THAT THE DEFENSE WILL UNDERSTAND
THE CONSTITUTIONAL GRAVITY AND
SALINITY OF THIS
TRIAL BY FOCUSING LIKE A
LASERBEAM ON THE FACTS AND NOT
RETURN TO THE CONSTITUTIONAL
ARGUMENT THAT'S ALREADY BEEN
DECIDED BY THE SENATE. JUST AS A
DEFENSE LAWYER WHO MOVES LOSES A
MOTION TO DISMISS, ON A
CONSTITUTIONAL BASIS
IN A CRIMINAL CASE MUST LET THAT
GO AND FOCUS ON THE FACTS WHICH
ARE BEING PRESENTED BY THE
PROSECUTORS IN DETAIL, THEY MUST
LET THIS CONSTITUTIONAL
JURISDICTIONAL ARGUMENT GO, NOT
JUST BECAUSE IT'S FRIVOLOUS AND
WRONG AS NEARLY EVER EVERY SPURT
SCHOLAR OPINED BUT BECAUSE IT'S
NOT RELEVANT TO THE JURY'S
CONSIDERATION OF THE FACTS OF
THE CASE. SO OUR FRIENDS MUST
WORK TO ANSWER ALL OF THE
OVERWHELMING DETAILED, SPECIFIC
, FACTUAL AND DOCUMENTARY
EVIDENCE WE HAVE INTRODUCED OF
THE PRESIDENTS CLEAR AND
OVERWHELMING GUILT IN INCITING
VIOLENCE INSURRECTION AGAINST
THE UNION
. DONALD TRUMP LAST WEEK TURNED
DOWN OUR INVITATION
TO COME TESTIFY ABOUT HIS
ACTIONS, AND THEREFORE, WE HAVE
NOT BEEN ABLE TO ASK HIM ANY
QUESTIONS DIRECTLY AS OF THIS
POINT, THEREFORE, DURING THE
COURSE OF THEIR 16 HOUR ALLOTTED
PRESENTATION, WE WOULD POST
THESE PRELIMINARY QUESTIONS TO
HIS LAWYERS WHICH I THINK ARE ON
EVERYONE'S MINDS RIGHT NOW, IN
WHICH WE WOULD HAVE ASKED MR.
TRUMP HIMSELF, IF HE HAD CHOSEN
TO COME AND TESTIFY ABOUT HIS
ACTIONS AND INACTIONS WHEN WE
INVITED HIM LAST WEEK. NUMBER 1,
WHY DID PRESIDENT TRUMP NOT TELL
HIS SUPPORTERS TO STOP THE
ATTACK ON THE CAPITAL AS SOON AS
HE LEARNED OF IT? WHY DID
PRESIDENT TRUMP DO NOTHING TO
STOP THE ATTACK FOR AT LEAST TWO
HOURS AFTER THE ATTACK BEGAN?
IS THERE CONSTITUTIONAL
COMMANDER IN CHIEF, WHY DID HE
DO NOTHING TO SEND HELP TO OUR
OVERWHELMED AND BESIEGED LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS FOR AT
LEAST TWO HOURS ON JANUARY 16,
AFTER THE ATTACK BEGAN? ON
JANUARY 6, WHY DID PRESIDENT
TRUMP NOT IT ANY POINT THAT DAY
CONDEMNED THE VIOLENCE
INSURRECTION AND THE
INSURRECTIONISTS AND I WILL ADD
A LEGAL QUESTION THAT I HOPE HIS
DISTINGUISHED COUNSEL WILL
ADDRESS. IF A PRESIDENT DID
INVITE A VIOLENT INSURRECTION
AGAINST OUR GOVERNMENT, AS OF
COURSE
WE ALLEGE AND THINK THAT WE'VE
PROVEN BUT JUST IN GENERAL, IF
THE PRESIDENT CITED A VIOLENT
INSURRECTION AGAINST OUR
GOVERNMENT, WOULD THAT BE A HIGH
CRIME AND MISDEMEANOR, COULD WE
ALL AGREE AT LEAST ON THAT?
SENATORS, I'VE TALKED A LOT
ABOUT COMMON SENSE IN THIS TRIAL
BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S ALL YOU
NEED TO ARRIVE AT THE RIGHT
ANSWER HERE YOU KNOW, WHEN TOM
PAINE WROTE COMMON SENSE, THE
PAMPHLET THAT LAUNCHED THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION, HE SAID
COMMON SENSE REALLY MEANT TWO
DIFFERENT THINGS. ONE, COMMON
SENSE IS THE UNDERSTANDING THAT
WE ALL HAVE WITHOUT ADVANCED
LEARNING AND EDUCATION, COMMON
SENSE IS THE SENSE
ACCESSIBLE TO EVERYBODY BUT
COMMON SENSE IS ALSO THE SENSE
THAT WE ALL HAVE IN COMMON, AS A
COMMUNITY.
SENATORS, AMERICA, WE NEED TO
EXERCISE OUR COMMON SENSE ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENED
. LET'S NOT GET CAUGHT UP IN A
LOT OF OUTLANDISH
LAWYERS THEORIES HERE. EXERCISE
YOUR COMMON SENSE ABOUT WHAT
JUST TOOK PLACE IN OUR COUNTRY.
TOM PAINE
WASN'T AN AMERICAN, AS YOU KNOW,
BUT HE CAME OVER TO HELP US, IN
OUR GREAT REVOLUTIONARY STRUGGLE
AGAINST THE KINGS AND QUEENS AND
THE TYRANTS, AND IN 1776, IN THE
CRISIS, HE WROTE, THESE
BEAUTIFUL WORDS, IT WAS A VERY
TOUGH TIME FOR THE COUNTRY.
PEOPLE DIDN'T KNOW WHICH WAY
THINGS WERE GOING TO GO, WERE WE
GOING TO WIN AGAINST
ALL HOPE, BECAUSE FOR MOST OF
THE REST OF HUMAN HISTORY, IT
HAD BEEN THE KINGS AND QUEENS
AND TYRANTS AND NOBLES, LORDING
IT OVER THE COMMON PEOPLE, GOOD
POLITICAL SELF-GOVERNMENT WORK
IN AMERICA, THAT WAS THE
QUESTION. AND PAINE WROTE
THIS PAMPHLET CALLED THE CRISIS,
AND IN IT, HE SAID THESE
BEAUTIFUL WORDS AND WITH YOUR
PERMISSION I WILL UPDATE THE
LANGUAGE A LITTLE BIT PURSUANT
TO A SUGGESTION OF SPEAKER
PELOSI, SO AS NOT TO OFFEND
MODERN SENSIBILITIES. BUT HE
SAID THESE ARE THE TIMES THAT
TRY MEN AND WOMEN'S SOULS, THESE
ARE THE TIMES THAT TRY MEN AND
WOMEN'S SOULS, THE SUMMER
SOLDIER AND THE SUNSHINE PATRIOT
WILL
SHRINK AT THIS MOMENT FROM THE
SERVICE OF THE CAUSE AND COUNTRY
BUT EVERYONE WHO STANDS WITH US
NOW WILL WIN THE LOVE AND THE
FAVOR AND THE AFFECTION OF EVERY
MAN AND EVERY WOMAN FOR ALL TIME
,  TYRANNY, LIKE , IS NOT EASILY
CONQUERED BUT  WE HAVE THIS
SEEMING CONSOLATION THROUGH MORE
DIFFICULT THE STRUGGLE, THE MORE
GLORIOUS IN THE END WILL BE OUR
VICTORY. GOOD LUCK IN YOUR
DELIBERATIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU. THANK YOU. NOW, I
HAVE, WE ARE GOING TO DO THE
ADJOURNMENT
RESOLUTION, I HAVE TWO OTHER
THINGS THAT WE HAVE TO DO, THEY
ARE QUICK, FIRST MR. PRESIDENT,
I ASK UNANIMOUS CONSENT THAT IT
BE AN ORDER, IN ORDER TO MAKE
SEVERAL UNANIMOUS CONSENT
REQUESTS.
&gt;&gt; THE OBJECTION IS ORDER.
&gt;&gt; ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12 FROM
10:30 TO 11:30 A.M., THEN
NOTWITHSTANDING ADJOURNMENT, THE
SENATE ABLE TO RECEIVE HOUSE
MESSAGES AND EXECUTIVE MATTERS,
COMMITTEES BE AUTHORIZED TO
REPORT
DISPLAYED IN AN EXECUTIVE
MATTERS AND SENATORS BE ALLOWED
TO SUBMIT STATEMENTS FOR THE
RECORD, INTRODUCED BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS, AND MAKE COSPONSOR
REQUEST, AND WHERE ACTIVE MOBILE
THE SECRETARY OF THE SENATE ON
BEHALF OF THE PRESIDING OFFICER
BE PERMITTED TO REFER SUCH
MATTERS?
&gt;&gt; SO ORDERED.
&gt;&gt; AND A SECOND REQUEST,
I ASK UNANIMOUS CONSENT THAT
PURSUANT TO THE ORDER OF THE
SENATE OF JANUARY 24, 1901, THE
TRADITIONAL READING OF
WASHINGTON'S FAREWELL ADDRESS
TAKE PLACE ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY
22, FOLLOWING THE PRAYER AND
PLEDGE FURTHER THAT SENATOR
PORTMAN BE RECOGNIZED TO DELIVER
THE ADDRESS
.
&gt;&gt; DO I HEAR ANY OBJECTION, IT'S
ORDERED.
&gt;&gt; AND FINALLY MR. PRESIDENT, I
ASK UNANIMOUS CONSENT THE TRIAL
ADJOURNED UNTIL 12 NOON
TOMORROW, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12
AND IT'S ALSO CONSTITUTE THE
ADJOURNMENT OF THE SENATE.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE IS ADJOURNED.
&gt;&gt; WITH THAT
GAVEL, HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS HAVE CONCLUDED THEIR
OPENING ARGUMENTS, CHARGING
DONALD TRUMP WITH A HIGH CRIME
AND MISDEMEANOR. THE LEAD
MANAGER RASKIN LAID ON HIS
CAREER AS A TEACHER OF
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW, TO DETAIL A
CASE ALLEGING A PATTERN OF
INCITING VIOLENCE BY DONALD
TRUMP. HE TOLD THE SENATE, IN NO
UNCERTAIN TERMS THAT HE FELT
DONALD TRUMP REMAINS A THREAT TO
DEMOCRACY, AND TO THEIR SAFETY
AND HE SAID FAILURE TO CONVICT
TRUMP WOULD ENDANGER ANY FUTURE
PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF POWER,
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LAWYERS WILL
GET THEIR TURN
TOMORROW. LET'S GO NOW TO RHONDA
COLEMAN, CAPITOL HILL REPORTER
JAMES HOLMAN, WASHINGTON POST
COLUMNIST, WE WILL KEEP AN EYE
TO SEE IF ANY SENATORS GO TO THE
MICROPHONES, TALK TO REPORTERS,
TO GIVE THEIR IMPRESSIONS OF THE
CASE SO FAR, BUT RHONDA, LET'S
START WITH YOU, TO GIVE US THE
BIG PICTURE TAKEAWAYS FROM THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS CASE
.
&gt;&gt; WELL, THE BULK OF TODAY'S
ARGUMENT WAS LOOKING AT THE
PRESIDENT'S ACTIONS, HIS ROLE
AND ALSO
THE AFTERMATH, THE HARM DONE AS
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER SAID,
WHAT HAPPENED, WHAT WAS THE
FALLOUT, IN THIS LAST PORTION,
WHAT WE SAW IS THE A DETAILED
WITH THE FALLOUT WAS GLOBALLY,
THAT SOME OF OUR ALLIES
, THIS WAS AN EVENT WHERE THEY
COULD LOSE CONFIDENCE IN THE
UNITED STATES, AND OUR ENEMIES
COULD SEE THAT THE CAPITAL WAS
VULNERABLE TO AN ATTACK LIKE
THIS. SO I'M THINKING BACK TO AN
INTERVIEW THAT I DID WITH
REPRESENTATIVE WILD, JUST A DAY
AFTER THE INSURRECTION, SHE SITS
ON THE FOREIGN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
AND SHE TOLD ME THAT WAS
FOREMOST CONCERN. SHE SAID THAT
THAT EVENT OF JANUARY 6, IF THE
HOUSE AND SENATE DON'T DO
ANYTHING TO HOLD PRESIDENT TRUMP
ACCOUNTABLE, THAT IT WOULD LOOK
VERY BAD TO BOTH ALLIES AND ALSO
ENEMIES, WHO MAY THINK OF
FURTHER ATTACKS TO DO ON THE
HOMELAND, SO, THAT WAS PART OF
THIS LAST HALF, THEY WANTED TO
SHOW WHAT THIS HAS DONE TO US
GLOBALLY, AND THAT'S ALSO GIVING
SENATORS JUST ANOTHER OPTION,
THEY GAVE A MARRIED OF OPTIONS
TO SENATORS AS TO WHY THIS FITS
A CONVICTION, AND THE FOREIGN
AFFAIRS ARGUMENT IS A PRETTY
STRONG ONE, NOT SURE IF THAT
WILL CHANGE MINDS OF COURSE OR
GET US TO THAT TWO THIRDS,
THOUGH THAT HE WOULD NEED TO
CONVICT HIM BUT THE PATIENT
MANAGERS, ENDED ON A NOTE
SHOWING THAT HARM WAS DONE, THEY
ALSO USED THIS TIME TO SUMMARIZE
PRETTY MUCH EVERYTHING THEY SAID
YESTERDAY, SHOWING THAT DONALD
TRUMP PROVOKED
IN THE OF TECH ATTACK HAPPENED
AND HE WAS ABSENT AS IT WAS
HAPPENING, SO THAT'S WHAT WE
JUST SAW IT RIGHT THERE, AND
THEY LEFT THAT
AS THEIR ARGUMENT, PRECEDING THE
ARGUMENT TO COME, FROM TRUMP'S
DEFENSE TEAM.
&gt;&gt; YOU SEE SENATOR HOLLY LIVING
THERE, SOMEONE WHO'S BEEN OF
INTEREST, JAMES, YOU WERE
REMINDING US EARLIER
THAT THERE'S A LOT OF STRATEGY
AND HOW SOME OF THESE
REPUBLICANS LIKE HIM, SENATOR
SCOTT OF FLORIDA ARE REACTING
AND TREATING THIS TRIAL AT THIS
POINT.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY, I GOT A DOZEN
FUNDRAISING EMAIL SOLICITATION
SIGNED BY HOLLY DURING THE
TRIAL, THEY ARE VERY MUCH
PLAYING THE 2024 GAME, AND
THINKING ABOUT THE REPUBLICAN
BASE, EVERYONE TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT HOW ON THEIR SITE, HOW DO
YOU KEEP TRUMP LOYALISTS, BUT
WHAT IF TRUMP RUNS AGAIN, SO
THERE ARE CERTAINLY SOME
REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO VOTE TO
ACQUIT
THE PRESIDENT, AND WE REALLY DO
HOPE THAT THIS SIDELINED HIM AND
PREVENT HIM FROM BEING A FORCE
GOING FORWARD.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE THINGS I
THINK THAT THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS WERE TRYING TO GET AT,
WHEN THEY REALLY EMPHASIZED THIS
AFTERNOON THAT THIS IS GOING TO
HAPPEN AGAIN, IF THE SENATE DOES
NOT CONVICT TRUMP, THAT THIS WAS
JUST THE LATEST EPISODE OF
VIOLENCE AND THAT IT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN AGAIN UNLESS THE SENATE
HOLDS TRUMP ACCOUNTABLE. THAT
WAS A THEME THAT WAS HAMMERED
REALLY HARD, AND IT SORT OF
SHOWED THE, WHY THIS MATTERS,
TRUMP IS AS MUCH A PROBLEM FOR
REPUBLICANS,
IF NOT MORE SO, THEN HE IS FOR
DEMOCRATS, IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF
YEARS.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, THE LEADING PATIENT
MANAGER JAMIE RASKIN ENDED WITH
A HANDFUL OF QUESTIONS THAT HE
WOULD LOVE TO POSE, PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S LAWYERS DON'T HAVE TO
TOUCH THOSE QUESTIONS AT ALL,
BUT THEY WERE, INTERESTING TO
HEAR BECAUSE IT GETS AT THE
QUESTION OF
WHY DID PRESIDENT TRUMP NOT ACT,
WHY DID HE NOT DO MORE TO
INTERVENE IN THE IMMEDIATE
AFTERMATH OF THE ATTACK ON THE
CAPITAL, TALK TO US ABOUT THAT
SIGNIFICANCE?
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS THE FIRST QUESTION
THAT PREVENTATIVE RASKIN SAID
WAS ON THEIR LIST THAT THEY
WANTED THE DEFENSE
TO ANSWER FOR TRUMP, WHY DID HE
NOT ACT IF HE WAS NOT SUPPORTING
THIS RIGHT AND INSURRECTION,
THEN WHY DID IT TAKE HIM SO LONG
TO CALL IT OFF AND SEND THE
HELP? SO THAT AGAIN,
WAS PART OF THAT, TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT A WAY TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE DEFENSE STARTS OUT
EXPLAINING THEIR SIDE OF THE
STORY, AND ALSO, HE ASKED THEM
TO ABANDON ANY SORT OF ARGUMENTS
THEY MIGHT TAKE ABOUT THE
UNCONSTITUTIONALITY, THEY SAID
THAT THEY ALREADY
DEALT WITH THAT, THEY VOTED THAT
THEY HAVE THE JURISDICTION AND
THAT SHOULD NOT BE A CENTRAL
PART OF THE ARGUMENTS WHEN THEY
START TOMORROW, SO
HE DID THAT, HE ALSO CHIPPED
AWAY AT SOME OF THE OTHER THINGS
THEY MAY TRY TO ARGUE, THE FREE
SPEECH ARGUMENT IS SOMETHING
THAT WE KNOW THE DEFENSE HAS
SAID WOULD BE CORE TO THEIR
ARGUMENTS, THEY'RE GOING TO SAY
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS SOME
SOMEONE WHO JUST SPEAKS
PASSIONATELY, AND THAT DID NOT
MEAN THAT HE WAS A PART OF THE
RIOT OR CONDONED IT BUT THEY
WANTED TO GO AHEAD AND SHIP AWAY
AT THAT BEFORE THE DEFENSE
STARTS TOMORROW, AND THEY ALSO
WANTED TO CHIP AWAY AT THE IDEA
THAT THIS IS HIGHLY PARTISAN,
THEY ALSO TALKED ABOUT THAT,
THAT WE HEARD, WHEN WE COVERED
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT VOTE, A
LOT OF REPUBLICANS WERE SAYING
THAT THIS WAS A RUSHED PROCESS,
THAT IS PARTISAN, THE DEMOCRATS
HAVE ALWAYS WANTED TO
DEFEAT DONALD TRUMP SINCE HE WAS
ELECTED, AND THIS IS JUST PART
OF IT, AND WE KNOW THAT THE
DEFENSE IS PLANNING TO USE THAT,
TOO, SO HE CHIPPED AWAY AT THAT
THING THAT TED LIEU, ONE OF THE
PATIENT MANAGER SAID THAT WE
WENT THROUGH THE PROCESS THAT WE
WERE SUPPOSED TO, AND IN
ADDITION, THE EVENTS OF JANUARY
6 IS UNDER CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION ALREADY, PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN ARRESTED AND WE FELT
THAT WE HAD ALL WE NEEDED TO GO
TO THE PERSON AT THE TOP WHO IS
DONALD TRUMP, SO THE LAST PERSON
WE SAW RIGHT HERE WAS TRYING TO
ATTACK WHAT THE DEFENSE IS
EXPECTED TO SAY TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; GREAT POINTS, RHONDA, THOSE
QUESTIONS THAT LEADING PATIENT
MANAGER RASKIN WAS POSING ARE
ALSO
QUESTIONS THAT HE WANTS TO
RESONATE IN THE MINDS OF THESE
JURORS, BECAUSE THEY ARE GOING
TO ARGUE A LOT ABOUT TRUMP'S
INTENTION, LEADING UP TO THE
ATTACK OF JANUARY 6, BUT THERE
IS THIS UNDENIABLE VACUUM OF
LEADERSHIP IN THE IMMEDIATE
AFTERMATH, AND FRANKLY THE HOURS
AFTER THE ATTACK. WE HEARD
PRESIDENT-ELECT JOE BIDEN COME
OUT AND CONDEMN WHAT WAS
HAPPENING AND HE DID IT RUSH TO
DO IT, HE GAVE TRUMP TIME BUT HE
DID IT MORE QUICKLY THAN
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID, AND THEY
PLAY THESE VERY COMPELLING OF
THE MOMENT CLIPS FROM TELEVISION
OF REPUBLICANS, CALLING INTO
TELEVISION OR FILMING VIDEOS
THEMSELVES, BAKING TRUMP TO DO
SOMETHING.
OR AT LEAST SAY SOMETHING
DIRECTLY TO HIS SUPPORTERS WHO
ARE IN THE MIDDLE OF THIS
ATTACK.
&gt;&gt; AND ONE OF THOSE CLIPS CAME
FROM MIKE GALLAGHER,
FROM WISCONSIN, WE HEARD THE
SAME CLIP YESTERDAY WHERE HE
RECORDED THE VIDEO AT HIS OFFICE
AND SAID ONLY YOU MR. PRESIDENT
CAN STOP THIS. THESE PEOPLE CAME
HERE BECAUSE OF YOU. NOTABLY,
GALLAGHER VOTED AGAINST
IMPEACHMENT IN THE HOUSE, HE WAS
NOT ONE OF THE 10 REPUBLICANS,
THAT'S A REFLECTION OF A LOT OF
THESE SENATE REPUBLICANS THEY
BLAME TRUMP FOR WHAT HAPPENED
BUT THEY'RE STILL NOT PLANNING
TO CONVICT. SO THREE OF THE FOUR
QUESTIONS THAT CONGRESSMAN
RASKIN POST WERE RELATED TO WHAT
YOU SAID. THE FOURTH WAS THE
MOST STRIKING TO ME BECAUSE IF A
PRESIDENT INCITES AND
INSURRECTION, DO WE ALL AGREE
THAT WOULD COUNT AS A HIGH CREAM
AND MISDEMEANOR? HE ACTUALLY
SAID TRUMP DOES SATISFY THE
LEGAL STANDARD FOR INSURRECTION
IN A COURT OF LAW, HE SAID THAT
MORE THAN 150 FREE SPEECH
ADVOCATES WOULD AGREE AND SIGN
ONTO THIS LETTER SAYING UNDER
THE 1969 SUPREME COURT STANDARD,
IF TRUMP WAS A PRIVATE CITIZEN,
HE COULD BE CHARGED WITH
INCITING A RIOT, BUT, RASKIN
ARGUED THAT THERE ARE
APPLICATIONS THAT ARE GREATER
THAN THAT, HE SAID THEY WOULD
MEET THAT WORD AND IF THEY
NEEDED TO, BUT HE SAID, HE NOTED
THAT HIS OWN DAUGHTER IS A
TEACHER, THE DAUGHTER WHO NO
LONGER FEEL SAFE COMING TO THE
CAPITAL AFTER SHE WAS THERE ON
JANUARY 6 AND HE SAID A TEACHER
CAN GET FIRED FOR SAYING THINGS
THAT ARE AT ODDS WITH THE
MISSION OF THE SCHOOL DISTRICT,
BECAUSE WHEN YOU TAKE ON A
PUBLIC OFFICE, EVEN THE ROLE OF
TEACHER, YOU ARE ACCOUNTABLE FOR
THINGS THAT YOU SAY IN YOUR
OFFICIAL CAPACITY. SIMILARLY
WITH THE PRESIDENT, HE SAID, IF
A PRIVATE CITIZEN SAID
THAT WE SHOULD BECOME A
TOTALITARIAN STATE, THERE'S
NOTHING ANYONE COULD DO TO THAT
PERSON, THAT'S FREE SPEECH, BUT
THAT SAME FREE SPEECH PROTECTION
DOESN'T APPLY TO A PRESIDENT, SO
HE GAVE THREE OTHER EXAMPLES OF
WHERE THE STANDARD, THE BAR, THE
THRESHOLD IS HIGHER FOR SOMEONE
WHO HOLDS A PUBLIC OFFICE LET
ALONE A PRESIDENT, AND AGAIN, HE
SPENT DECADES TEACHING
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW, HE TALKED
ABOUT THOMAS PAINE A BUNCH OF
COMMON SENSE BUT HE TALKED ABOUT
EVERYTHING IN ARTICLE ONE WHICH
IS WHAT CREATED
CONGRESS AND THEN ARTICLE 2,
WHICH IS ABOUT THE PRESIDENCY,
RASKIN NOTED THERE ARE ONLY FOUR
PARAGRAPHS IN ARTICLE 2 OF THE
FOURTH PARAGRAPH IS ALL ABOUT
IMPEACHMENT, SO, THIS IS THAT
FOURTH QUESTION, IT'S ABOUT
UNDERCUTTING WHAT'S GOING TO BE
A CENTRAL PART OF THE PRESIDENTS
DEFENSE ARGUMENT AND WE KNOW
FROM READING THEIR BRIEFS THAT
THEY'VE ALREADY FILED WHICH IS
THAT TRUMP WAS ENGAGING IN FREE
SPEECH
AND UNDER THE LEGAL DEFINITION,
UNDER THE SUPREME COURT CASE,
WHAT TRUMP DID WHAT CONSTITUTE
INCITEMENT, SO I THOUGHT THE
FOURTH QUESTION REALLY LAID OUT
DOUBT ABOUT FOR ANYONE WHO IS
INTELLECTUALLY WATCHING THIS
TRIAL IN THE SENATE CHAMBER AND
ENGAGING IT IN A SERIOUS WAY.
&gt;&gt; AND RASKIN POINTED OUT IT'S
THE CONGRESS THAT HAS THE POWER
TO IMPEACH AND CONVICT THE
PRESIDENT, IT'S NOT THE POWER
PRESIDENT WHO HAS POWER OVER
CONGRESS BUT IT'S ALSO A
METAPHOR, RIGHT? THE MAC AND
THERE'S BEEN SO MUCH MOVED
TOWARD THE IMPERIAL PRESIDENCY,
THAT'S A NARRATIVE OF THE LAST
CENTURY, THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS
BECOME MORE AND MORE POWERFUL,
AND IF THE PRESIDENT CAN GET
AWAY WITH DOING SOMETHING I CAN
ALLEGEDLY DID ON JANUARY 6, THEN
IT MEANS THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS
ALL THE MORE POWER, THAT THE
BALANCE BALANCE OF POWER, THE
CHECKS AND BALANCES, THIS IS ONE
OF THE MOST ESSENTIAL CHECKS AND
BALANCES, THAT WHEN YOU FUNCTION
ON THAT BY NOT CONVICTING TRUMP,
THEN NUMBER 1, IT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN AGAIN BECAUSE
YOU WILL REMOVE DISINCENTIVES TO
STOP IT BUT NUMBER 2, IT WILL
WARP OUR ENTIRE SYSTEM OF
GOVERNMENT. THAT IS WHAT WAS
GETTING AT, BY ESSENTIALLY
APPEALING
TO THE SENATORS OWN SENSE OF
IMPORTANCE, WHICH IS A VOTE TO
ACQUIT TRUMP IS A VOTE AGAINST
THE POWER OF THE LEGISLATIVE
BRANCH ITSELF.
&gt;&gt; A LOT OF TODAY'S ARGUMENT WAS
SHOWING UP PATTERN OF DONALD
TRUMP'S WHICH
ENCOURAGING VIOLENCE AND
EMBOLDENING THE MOB, WHICH
INCLUDED MANY WHITE
NATIONALISTS. LET'S BRING IN
NATIONAL REPORTER THE CORAL
NICOLE ELLIS HAS BEEN REPORTING
ON WHAT THOSE MOMENTS WERE LIKE
FOR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS OF
COLOR, NICOLE?
I THINK WE'VE GOT A PROBLEM WITH
YOUR AUDIO, NICOLE
&gt;&gt; Reporter: I'M SORRY, CAN YOU
HEAR ME?
&gt;&gt;
ONE AGAIN, YOU'VE BEEN DOING
THESE INTERVIEWS WITH MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, TO SORT OF CAPTURE AND
DOCUMENT THEIR EXPERIENCES, TELL
US MORE.
&gt;&gt; SO IN TODAY'S HEARING
OBVIOUSLY, WHEN IMPEACHMENT
MANAGER TO GET MENTIONED THAT
ONE OF THE FIRST THING SHE DID
WHEN SHE REALIZED WHAT WAS
HAPPENING WAS TAKEOFF HER MEMBER
PAIN, THAT WAS AN EXTREMELY
NOTABLE STICKING POINT. FOR THE
VEIL MENTIONED THAT TAKING OFF
THEIR PARENTS WOULD DO LITTLE
FOR THEIR SAFETY. HERE'S A BRIEF
CLIPS OF WHAT THEY HAD TO SAY.
&gt;&gt; MY WHITE COLLEAGUES CAN TAKE
OFF THEIR COATS AND REMOVE THEIR
PENS AND TRY TO BLEND IN THE
CROWD. I CAN'T DO THAT
.
&gt;&gt; I HAD ONE FRIEND TEXT ME AND
SHE SAID JUST GO OUT, JUST FIGHT
FIND IT TRUMP SCARF AND PUT IT
ON. I SAID, I DID NOT FEEL THAT
I COULD COMFORTABLY WALK OUT AS
A WOMAN OF COLOR.
&gt;&gt; WHAT IF, WHAT IF I HAD BEEN
VISIBLE ENOUGH FOR THESE FOLKS
TO SEE, THEN YEAH
ALL OF OUR LIVES WERE THREATENED
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING.
&gt;&gt; AS YOU MENTIONED, WE ARE NOT
GOING TO HEAR FROM WITNESSES,
AND WE MAY NOT
HEAR SOME OF THESE FIRST-HAND
ACCOUNTS OUTSIDE OF VIDEOS BUT
IT'S CLEAR THAT AMONG STAFFERS
AND MEMBERS OF CONGRESS OF
COLOR, THAT RACE WAS A BIG ISSUE
AND A BIG FACTOR IN HOW THEY
THOUGHT ABOUT THEIR LIKELIHOOD
OF SURVIVAL, IF THEY WERE FOUND
ON JANUARY 6. SO, IT'LL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE IF THIS IS
ADDRESSED IN THE COMING DAYS AS
WELL BECAUSE IT'S CLEAR THAT
RACE WAS A FACTOR HERE AND THAT
RACISM WAS A HUGE CONSIDERATION
FOR PEOPLE THAT FELT THEIR LIVES
WERE AT RISK WHILE IN THE
CAPITAL, BOTH MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, STAFFERS, AND LIKELY
JOURNALISTS AND SO MANY OTHERS
THAT WERE THERE.
&gt;&gt; NICOLE ELLIS, THANK YOU SO
MUCH. RHONDA, I KNOW YOU'VE BEEN
CHECKING IN WITH MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, AND THEIR EXPERIENCES,
BOTH ON THAT DAY BUT ALSO, JUST
IN THE AFTERMATH,
I'M WONDERING WHERE THINGS GO
FROM HERE, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
EXCLUSIVE TO THIS TRIAL PROCESS.
HOW ARE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
DEALING WITH YOU KNOW, JUST
WHAT THEY'VE BEEN THROUGH, IN
EVERY SENSE, THINKING ABOUT HOW
THEY COMBAT DISINFORMATION, TO
MAKING SURE THAT THE STAFFS ARE
COPING WITH THIS FUNDAMENTALLY
HEALTHY WAY, WHAT IS ON THEIR
PLATES?
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE DEALING WITH A
TRAUMA SIMULTANEOUSLY, WORKING
ON EITHER THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
ON THE SENATE SIDE
OR OVER ON THE HOUSE SIDE,
WORKING ON THE NEXT BIG
CORONAVIRUS PACKAGE, BUT WHILE
THEY ARE DOING ALL OF THESE VERY
WEIGHTY, LEGISLATIVE ISSUES,
THEY ARE ALSO VERY OPEN ABOUT
THE FACT THAT THIS IS STILL AN
OPEN TRAUMA, THIS IS STILL
SOMETHING THEY ARE DEALING WITH
DAILY. I'VE TALKED TO STAFFERS
WHO SAID, EVERY DAY WHEN YOU
COME IN HERE, IT'S A REMINDER OF
WHAT HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6
. I'VE TALKED TO STAFFERS WHO
WORK HERE BECAUSE MANY OF THEM
ARE ABLE TO WORK FROM HOME AND
THEY SAID JUST EVEN WATCHING THE
SCENES AND SEEING THESE RIDERS
GO PAST VERY FAMILIAR PLACES
FELT LIKE AN INVASION AND THEY
ARE HAVING --
&gt;&gt; LET'S PAUSE A MOMENT AND
LISTEN TO SENATOR WARREN.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: ALSO TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. THEY PUT US ON
RECORD FOR ALL OF HISTORY, ABOUT
WHAT DONALD TRUMP DID TO SUBVERT
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA. THE MAC AND
COULD YOU DESCRIBE A LITTLE BIT
OF THE MOOD YESTERDAY DURING THE
PRESENTATION?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: I THINK PEOPLE ARE
NOT HAPPY HAVING TO SEE THE
VIDEOS ALTOGETHER, TO SEE
EXACTLY HOW CLOSE WE CAME
TO EVEN MORE DEATH AND
DESTRUCTION. I ACTUALLY HEARD
OTHER SENATORS MATTER, IT'S A
MIRACLE THAT MORE PEOPLE WEREN'T
KILLED
.
&gt;&gt; I THINK YOU NOTED THAT YOU
ARE LOOKING AT SOME OF YOUR
COLLEAGUES, YOU LOOKED AT THEM
DURING THE
PRESENTATION?
&gt;&gt; I LOOK ACROSS THE ISLE AT THE
REPUBLICANS, AS WE SEE VIDEO
AFTER VIDEO AFTER VIDEO, DONALD
TRUMP, LAYING IN THE FOUNDATION,
MONTHS AGO FOR BEING ABLE TO
TURN
AN ELECTION THAT DIDN'T GO HIS
WAY AND THEN WHIPPING A CROWD
INTO A FRENZY TO COME LAUNCH AN
ATTACK ON THE CAPITAL, AND I
LOOKED ACROSS AT THE REPUBLICANS
AND THEY JUST ACT LIKE THEY ARE
NOT HEARING ANYTHING AT ALL. AND
I JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND IT.
&gt;&gt; ALSO, DO YOU THINK ANY
REPUBLICANS WILL CHANGE THEIR
MIND AND IF NOT, SHOULD THERE BE
A CONSIDERATION OF CENSURING
TRUMP?
&gt;&gt; I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW THEY
CANNOT TREAT THAT AS AN
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE. IF WE HAVE
SEEN OF THE LAST TWO DAYS IS NOT
AN IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE, THEN IN
EFFECT THE REPUBLICANS ARE
SAYING THERE IS NOTHING AND I
THINK THAT'S WRONG.
&gt;&gt; SO
IF HE'S ACQUITTED --
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT'S WRONG.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR ELIZABETH FORAN
TALKING TO REPORTERS THERE.
LET'S GO BACK TO YOU. WE HEARD
SENATOR WARREN AT THE BEGINNING
OF THAT, TALK ABOUT, THIS IS
GETTING US ON THE RECORD, THIS
IS DOCUMENTING WHAT HAS HAPPENED
OVER, NOT JUST JANUARY 6 BUT
OVER THE
COURSE OF YEARS IN TERMS OF THE
MISINFORMATION COMING FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
COMING UP TO IMPEACH A MANAGER
SAYING, THE ATTACK ON THE
CAPITAL, SO FULL THAT INTO WHAT
YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT, ABOUT HOW
THESE MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE AND
SENATE ARE PROCESSING THIS
MOMENT
?
&gt;&gt; THERE STILL PROCESSING IT AND
I THINK IT'S VERY TELLING THAT
ELIZABETH WARREN HAS BEEN THE
FIRST PERSON THAT WE'VE SEEN
TALK AFTER TAPE TODAY'S EVENTS
CONCLUDED, USUALLY, IF ONE SIDE
OR THE OTHER HERE ON THE HILL
FEELS LIKE THEY HAVE SOMETHING
TO ATTACK, THEY WILL FIND A
REPORTER, FIND A MIC STAND AND
GO AND SAY SOMETHING. WE HAVE
NOT SEEN SENATE REPUBLICANS
COMMENT
AND COME AND TALK TO ANY OF
THESE JOURNALISTS WERE WAITING
OUTSIDE, TO GIVE COMMENTS AND
THAT COULD BE TELLING, THAT
COULD SHOW THAT THESE IMAGES
THAT THEY'VE HAD TO SIT THROUGH
AND WATCH FOR THE LAST FEW DAYS
DID HIT HOME. AGAIN, I'M NOT
SAYING THAT MEANS THAT TWO
THIRDS OF THE SENATE WILL VOTE
TO CONVICT DONALD TRUMP BUT
THERE'S NO DENYING THAT THEY ARE
LIKELY GOING THROUGH THEIR OWN
TRAUMAS JUST BY HAVING TO BE
JURORS IN THIS TRIAL. I THINK
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
SENATOR WARREN JUST MENTIONED
ABOUT LOOKING OVER AT THE ISLE
TO HER SENATE REPUBLICAN
COLLEAGUES, AND THERE SEEMS TO
BE A BIT OF DISMAY AMONG
DEMOCRATS SAYING, IF THIS ISN'T
IMPEACHABLE, I DON'T KNOW WHAT
IS, AND I KNOW A FEW OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER SAID THAT
SENTENCE, TOO, THAT THIS FITS
THE VERY DEFINITION OF WHAT THE
FRAMERS WERE SAYING, YOU CANNOT
HAVE SOMEONE IN OFFICE WHO WILL
DO ANYTHING TO MAINTAIN THAT
OFFICE, SO, I JUST WANTED TO
POINT THAT OUT, FOR PEOPLE AT
HOME THAT WHEN YOU COVER THE
HILL AND ARE WAITING IN THE
HALLWAYS FOR PEOPLE TO STOP AND
TALK TO YOU, USUALLY IF IT'S A
GOOD DAY FOR YOUR TEAM, YOU WILL
FIND A REPORTER TO TELL THAT TO.
IF YOU WANT TO ATTACK THE OTHER
SIDE, YOU WILL FIND A MICROPHONE
TO TALK TO
YOU BUT WHEN YOU SEE EVERYBODY
LEAVE AND GET OUT OF THERE, YOU
CAN TELL THAT WHAT THEY
WITNESSED AND GONE THROUGH IS
PROBABLY PRETTY HEAVY FOR THEM.
AND I JUST KNOW FROM THE
CONVERSATIONS I'VE HAD A DAY
AFTER THE INSURRECTION AND
STAFFERS, THIS IS SOMETHING THEY
ARE STILL WORKING THROUGH, AND
IT WILL BE PROBABLY FOR A LONG
TIME ESPECIALLY BECAUSE THERE
ARE SO MANY PHYSICAL REMINDERS
OF FROM
JANUARY 6, THE NATIONAL GUARD IS
STILL VERY MUCH HERE, THEY ARE
AT MOST OF THE ENTRANCES AND THE
GATES COMING AROUND THE
PERIMETER OF THE ENTIRE COMPLEX,
WITH GUNS, THEY ARE STANDING,
WATCHING EVERYONE, AND AND GO,
YOU'VE GOT TO SHOW A BADGE TO
GET ANYWHERE NEAR A SENATE OR
HOUSE BUILDING RIGHT NOW SO
THESE ARE THINGS THAT HAVE NOT
YET BECOME ROUTINE TO ANYBODY
WHO COMES TO THE HILL. THEY ARE
REMINDERS OF WHAT HAPPENED.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO NOW TO SENIOR
CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT PAUL
KANE. PAUL, RHONDA WAS
REFLECTING ON HOW THESE
SENATORS WERE DIGESTING ALL THIS
TODAY. WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT
WHAT WAS GOING ON INSIDE THE
CHAMBER, AND I FEEL LIKE I HAVE
TO REMIND PEOPLE THAT WE DON'T
HAVE CONTROL OVER THE CAMERAS,
NEITHER THE C-SPAN, ONLY
CONGRESS CONTROLS THOSE CAMERAS,
AND SOMETIMES THE
MISUNDERSTANDING OF WHO CAN
ACTUALLY MAKE THAT LENS GO
AROUND THE ROOM, IT IS JUST
CONGRESS, SO
WE CAN'T SEE WHAT MOST OF THOSE
JURORS ARE DOING. TELL US WHAT
WE KNOW ABOUT WHAT WAS GOING ON
INSIDE THE CHAMBER?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: WE HAVE SORT OF A
ROTATING POOL SYSTEM OF
REPORTERS THAT ARE IN CHAMBER
AND GIVE US FEEDS ABOUT WHAT WAS
GOING ON, AND TODAY WAS A DAY
THAT FELT A LITTLE BIT MORE LIKE
THE UKRAINE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL,
OF A LITTLE MORE THAN A YEAR
AGO, WHERE, SENATORS WERE
GETTING SORT OF TIRED MORE
QUICKLY AND WERE NOWHERE NEAR AS
SORT OF RIVETED AND ENTHRALLED
FOR BETTER OR WORSE REASONS
THAN THEY WERE YESTERDAY,
YESTERDAY'S TESTIMONY WAS, I WAS
IN THE ROOM FOR THE MOST
POWERFUL PARTS OF IT, IT WAS
EVERY SINGLE PERSON WAS ON THE
EDGE OF THEIR SEAT WATCHING AS
THE VIDEOS WERE UNFOLDING. THE
ATTACK WAS SORT OF PLAYED OUT
FOR THEM. THIS TIME AROUND, IT
WAS CLEAR THAT TODAY'S TESTIMONY
WAS MORE
, FELT TO REPUBLICANS, THEY
WOULD COME OUT UNTIL REPORTERS
THAT THEY FELT IT WAS GETTING A
LITTLE REPETITIVE, AND THAT THEY
WERE REALLY LEARNING ANYTHING
NEW. AND THERE WOULD BE POINTS
WHERE ANYWHERE FROM 10 TO 15
SENATORS MOSTLY REPUBLICAN,
WOULD NOT BE IN THEIR CHAIRS,
THEY ARE PROBABLY IN WHAT THEY
CALL THE CLOAKROOM WHICH IS JUST
THE ROOM ATTACHED TO THE SENATE
FLOOR THERE, WHERE THEY CAN SORT
OF GO STRETCH OUT AND RELAX
IN A MORE COMFORTABLE SETTING,
THE TVS ARE ON IN THERE, ON THE
TRIAL, SO THEY WOULD BE FOCUSING
ON THE BUT CLEARLY, THERE'S NOT
AS MUCH OF THE FOCUS OF YOU ARE
LOUNGING ON A SOFA AS OPPOSED TO
A CHAIR. SO, TODAY BROUGHT LESS
OF THE INTENSITY THEN YESTERDAY
AFTERNOON, ESPECIALLY,
AND, OVERALL, YOU'RE LOOKING AT
ONLY ABOUT 10 HOURS OR SO OF THE
TESTIMONY BEING USED BY THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS. THEY WERE
TOLD THEY COULD HAVE UP TO 16
HOURS
AND YOU KNOW, TO PUT THIS ALL
INTO PERSPECTIVE, THIS GROUP OF
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, NINE OF
THEM, SPOKE FOR ABOUT 10 HOURS
. LAST YEAR, IN THE IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL, BY HIMSELF, IN THE
OPENING PRESENTATION BY THE
HOUSE MANAGERS, BY HIMSELF, ADAM
SHIFF SPOKE FOR NINE HOURS. THEY
WENT LIKE 20 TO 22 HOURS
, A YEAR AGO, AND THE REALITY
IS, THAT GROUP OF DEMOCRATS LAST
YEAR, LOST TO REPUBLICANS
BECAUSE THEY WENT SO LONG AND
DID SO MUCH STUFF THAT
REPUBLICANS, AND TO BE QUITE
HONEST, DEMOCRATS AS WELL
DEMOCRATS WERE IMPRESSED WITH
THE GROUP LAST YEAR BUT THEY
DIDN'T FEEL, THERE WERE POINTS
WHERE THEY COULD GET UP AND WALK
AROUND AND PASTE. A MUCH
DIFFERENT PRESENTATION OVERALL
THIS YEAR COMPARED TO LAST YEAR,
AND YESTERDAY COMPARED TO TODAY.
&gt;&gt; WHAT ARE YOU WATCHING FOR
KNOW, SORT OF AND RESPONSES THAT
WE MADE HERE OVERNIGHT, AND THEN
INTO TOMORROW AS PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S TEAM TAKES CENTER STAGE?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THE MOST CRITICAL
QUESTION IN THE TRIAL WAS,
TOWARDS THE VERY END OF
CONGRESSMAN RASKIN'S CLOSING
REMARKS, HE LOOKED TO HIS
COMPETING
THE TRUMP DEFENSE TEAM WAS AND
RATTLED OFF A SERIES OF
QUESTIONS TO THEM, NOW THEY WILL
PROBABLY JUST IGNORE THIS, THEY
WILL IGNORE THE BAIT, SO TO
SPEAK BUT HE SAID, I HOPE WHEN
YOU DELIVER YOUR REMARKS, YOU
WILL ADDRESS SEVERAL THINGS. WHY
DID DONALD TRUMP ON JANUARY 6,
NEVER, EVER CRITICIZE THE GROUP
OF PEOPLE THAT ATTACKED THE
CAPITAL? SHE SAID, THE FIRST
THING THAT TRUMP DID
TO TRY TO GET THE RIGHT UNDER
CONTROL WAS A TWEET AFTER 4:00
AND FRANKLY, IT WAS A TWEETED
VIDEO IN WHICH HE PRAISED THE
RIOTERS AND RASKIN SAID, IF YOU
ACCEPT THAT THIS WAS ACTUALLY,
TRYING TO TELL THEM TO CALM DOWN
AND LEAVE THE CAPITAL, WHICH YOU
ACCEPT THAT IT CAME MORE THAN
TWO HOURS AFTER THEY HAVE
BREACHED THE CAPITAL GROUNDS,
WHY DID IT TAKE SO LONG FOR HIM
TO ISSUE THIS TEPID TWEET
AND ESSENTIALLY SAID, WHAT DID
TRUMP DO THE AFTERNOON OF
JANUARY 6, TELL US WHAT HE DID,
BECAUSE THAT GOES TO THE CORE
QUESTIONS THAT REALLY HAVE NOT
BEEN ABLE TO BE MET, AND IT'S,
YOU KNOW, WHAT DID TRUMP KNOW
AND WHEN DID HE KNOW IT AND WHAT
WAS THE MOTIVE BEHIND THE THINGS
THAT HE WAS DOING? AND THOSE ARE
THE REMAINING QUESTIONS THAT YOU
KNOW, CANNOT BE ANSWERED UNLESS
THEY CALL A WHOLE BUNCH OF
WITNESSES OF PEOPLE WHO WERE
AROUND TRUMP THAT DAY. WHICH IS,
AT THIS STAGE, NOT LIKELY TO
HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
&gt;&gt; ANYTIME.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO POLITICAL
REPORTER JOYCE CO., SO JOYCE,
WHAT WILL WE HEAR FROM TRUMP'S
DEFENSE TEAM TOMORROW, AS THEY
DID BEGIN THEIR ARGUMENTS?
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT, TOMORROW WILL
BE THE FIRST DAY THAT WE HEAR,
THE BEGINNING OF THE ARGUMENTS
OF FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS, AND MUCH OF WHAT WE
EXPECT TO HEAR FROM THEM CAN BE
FOUND IN THIS
76 PAGE LEGAL BRIEF THAT THEY
FILED ON MONDAY, AND ONE OF
THEIR MAIN DEFENSES OF TRUMP
WILL BE, FREE SPEECH. THE FACT
THAT HE HAS THE RIGHT TO HIS
FIRST AMENDMENT, AND
THEY WILL DEFEND THE WORDS THAT
HE USED, BOTH IN HIS SPEECH ON
JANUARY 6 AS WELL AS SOME OF
THOSE TWEETS AND SPEECHES THAT
WE HEARD THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS TALK ABOUT OVER THE
COURSE OF THE LAST TWO DAYS. ONE
OF THE PIECES OF THIS LEGAL
BRIEF THAT I WANTED TO MENTION,
AS IT RELATES TO FREE SPEECH IS
WHEN DAVID SHOW IN AND BRUCE
CASTOR TALK ABOUT THE WORD
FIGHT, AND TRUMP'S USE OF THE
WORD FIGHT IN HIS SPEECH, WHERE
HE SAID THAT
WORD NUMEROUS TIMES BUT THEY
DEFEND THAT AS HIM USING IT
FIGURATIVELY, AND I THINK WE
WILL SEE SEVERAL OF THOSE TYPES
OF ARGUMENTS TOMORROW WHEN WE
HEAR OF THE ATTORNEYS OF TRUMP
BEGIN TO DEFEND HIM. IN ADDITION
TO THAT, I THINK WE CAN EXPECT
TO SEE A LOT OF
ATTEMPTED PARALLELS DRAWN
BETWEEN THE INSURRECTIONISTS AS
WELL AS THE BLACK LIVES MATTER
PROTESTS THAT WENT ON OVER THE
COURSE OF THE LAST YEAR. THAT IS
ONE OF THE POINTS THAT TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS MAKE IN THIS LEGAL
BRIEF, AND I THINK WE CAN EXPECT
THEM TO TRY TO DRAW SOME
PARALLELS BETWEEN THAT AS WELL
AS AGAINST THE INSURRECTION THAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6. IN
ADDITION TO THIS, THEY WILL
DEFINITELY BE AN
ATTACKING THE INPATIENT
MANAGERS, GOING AFTER THE
DEMOCRATS. WE KNOW THAT TRUMP
LAWYERS HAVE ALREADY ACCUSED
INPATIENT MANAGERS OF
GLORIFYING VIOLENCE, WHEN THEY
DRAW OUT EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED
ON JANUARY 6, AS WELL AS
ACCUSING DEMOCRATS OF POLITICAL
OPPORTUNISM, THEY TRIED TO PAINT
THIS AS POLITICAL THEATER,
AS OF COURSE WE NOTED ON
TUESDAY'S COVERAGE, THEY DIDN'T
WANT THIS TRIAL TO BEGIN WITH.
AND ANOTHER THING TO NOTE, IS
THAT DAVID SHOWN, ONE OF TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS, SAID TODAY THAT TRUMP
DOESN'T WANT TO BE ASSOCIATED
WITH THE ATTACK ON JANUARY 6, SO
WE WILL SEE JUST HOW HIS
ATTORNEYS MAKE THAT CASE, AFTER
THE MOUNTING EVIDENCE THAT THE
MANAGERS PRESENTED TODAY, AND IN
ADDITION TO THE
INSURRECTIONISTS, THE TRUMP
SUPPORTERS THAT SET THEMSELVES,
AND POINTED BACK TO THEIR
ALLEGIANCE OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP AS A REASON FOR
WHY THEY WERE THERE THAT DAY,
LIBBY?
&gt;&gt; WHAT KIND OF TONE DO WE
ANTICIPATE HEARING FROM TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS?
&gt;&gt; SO THOSE TWO ATTORNEYS I
TALKED ABOUT, HE IS THE ONE THAT
HAS THE MORE TRUMP IN AND
AGGRESSIVE TONE, HE'S DEFENDED
TRUMP
ON FOX NEWS, HE MADE A CASE
ATTACKING THE MANAGERS, CALLING
THEIR PRESENTATION
AND ENTERTAINMENT PACKAGE, HE
SAID THAT WHEN THEY WERE SHOWING
VIDEOS OF THE VIOLENCE, THAT IT
WAS OFFENSIVE, WE CAN ALSO
EXPECT HIS TONE TO BE FOCUSED ON
SORT OF THE, WHAT HE CALLS, THE
HYPOCRISY OF THE DEMOCRATS, HE
ALLUDED TO YESTERDAY, THAT THERE
COULD BE
A POTENTIAL PRESENTATION OF
VIDEOS, OF THE DEMOCRATS, AND HE
DOES OUTLINE SOME OF THAT IN THE
LEGAL BRIEFING AS WELL,
COMPARING AND CONTRASTING
THE BLACK LIVES MATTER PROTESTS
FOR EXAMPLE, TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S WORDS ON THE
INSURRECTIONISTS, IT IS A
PARALLEL THAT THEY WILL ATTEMPT
TO MAKE, BUT HIS TONE IS MORE
AGGRESSIVE THAN WHAT WE SAW FROM
BRUCE CASTOR ON TUESDAY, AND
CASTOR WAS
CRITICIZED FOR HAVING A
PERPLEXING ARGUMENT BECAUSE HE
REALLY RAMBLED A LOT, HE GAVE AN
ARGUMENT THAT MADE POINTS THAT
HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH WHAT THEY
WERE ARGUING ABOUT IT WAS
CONSTITUTIONALITY, AND HE
DREW PRETTY HARSH CRITICISM FROM
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS AS
WELL AS TRUMP HIMSELF, WHO WAS
FURIOUS, REPORTEDLY, WATCHING
BRUCE CASTOR'S DEFENSE OF HIM.
SO I THINK IN CONTRAST TO WHAT
WE SAW TUESDAY, WE WILL BE
LOOKING TO SEE TOMORROW, WHAT
WHETHER OR NOT CASTOR AND DAVID
SCHOEN  ARE GOING TO BE MORE
SIMILAR OR ONE ATTORNEY WHO'S
MORE RAMBLING, THE STRATEGY
WITH HIM AND CALLING IT, THAT
THIS IS INTENTIONAL, AND HE WAS
ASKED WHETHER OR NOT HE WAS
PLANNING ON CHANGING IT, AND HE
HAS SAID NUMEROUS TIMES, THAT HE
HAS NO PLANS ON CHANGING THEIR
STRATEGY, SO THAT'S ONE THING WE
WILL CERTAINLY BE LOOKING FOR
TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH, JAMES, YOU
DEFINITELY DON'T WANT TO ADMIT
WHEN YOUR STRATEGY HASN'T WORKED
SO FAR. SO
&gt;&gt; OUR STRATEGY IS TO RAMBLE.
&gt;&gt;
WILL HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT IN MY
PERFORMANCE REVIEW. IT'S ALL
ABOUT MY STRATEGY. JAMES, I WANT
TO TALK MORE ABOUT WHAT WE MAY
HEAR, AND JUMPING OFF OF WHERE
JOYCE LEFT US, OUR COLLEAGUES
ARE
FILING PULL REPORTS, GETTING
SOME FEEDBACK FROM CAPITOL HILL,
AND I WANT TO SHARE YOU WHAT
SENATOR TURBERVILLE HAS SAID,
THIS IS FRESHMAN, BRAND-NEW TO
THIS ALL, HE SAID HE WANTS TO
HEAR FROM THE DEFENSE TEAM, WHY
THIS IS NOT CONSTITUTIONAL AND
THEN GO FROM THERE. OF COURSE
THIS GETS US BACK TO THE
ARGUMENT THAT JAMIE RASKIN WAS
MAKING TODAY, TRYING TO SAY THAT
WE ARE DONE WITH THAT, THE BOOK
IS CLOSED, AND RASKIN COMPARED
IT TO
YOU KNOW, IN A TRIAL, A DEFENSE
LAWYER LOSING EMOTION AND HAVING
TO MOVE ON.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU MAKE A MOTION TO
DISMISS AND THE JUDGE REJECTS
IT, THEN YOU HAVE TO ARGUE THE
FACTS OF THE CASE. AND THAT'S
WHERE WE ARE AT, BUT THAT DOES
NOT MEAN THAT THE DEFENSE DID
NOT MAKE THE ARGUMENT, IT'S NOT
A COURT OF LAW, IT IS A COURT,
BUT IT IS ULTIMATELY A COURT OF
PUBLIC OPINION. NOW, EVERY
SENATOR, ALL 100 OF THEM, SWORE
AN OATH AT THE START OF THE
TRIAL TO RENDER IMPARTIAL
JUSTICE. OBVIOUSLY, THEY ARE ALL
BIASED, THEY ARE ALL PARTISANS,
TRIBALISM IS THE BEST THING
WORKING AND TRUMP'S FAVOR RIGHT
NOW BUT THEY HAVE SWORN A
SACRED OATH ON THE BIBLE TO
RENDER IMPARTIAL JUSTICE, AND I
THINK A LOT OF THE REPUBLICAN
SENATORS ARE GOING TO BE LOOKING
FOR PROCEDURAL OFF RAMPS AND
ESSENTIALLY LEGAL LOOPHOLES, SO
YOU'RE GOING TO HEAR THE
PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE TEAM MAKE
THAT CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT
AGAIN
, EVEN IF THEY DON'T LEAN
HEAVILY INTO IT. YOU WILL
CERTAINLY HEAR A LOT OF SENATORS
USE THAT AS A JUSTIFICATION TO
VOTE NOT TO CONVICT. AND, YOU
WILL HEAR A LOT OF THE THINGS
THAT THE DEMOCRATS ADDRESS IN
THEIR PRE-BATTLE,
THERE WAS THE 75 PAGE BRIEF, AND
THEY KNOW WHAT THE PRESIDENT'S
DEFENSE TEAM HAS SAID THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO ARGUE,
ULTIMATELY, WE DO HAVE THIS
OATH, AND ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT'S BEEN INTERESTING, IS HOW
MANY PEOPLE
TALK ABOUT OUR TEAM, OUR SIDE,
JOHN CORNYN, THE REPUBLICAN FROM
TEXAS SAID OUR SIDE GOES UP
TOMORROW AND WE WILL SEE WHAT
OUR SITE DOES. AND A YEAR AGO,
MITCH McCONNELL SAID LOOK, I'M
NOT IMPARTIAL JUROR, I WANT THE
PRESIDENT TO GET ACQUITTED, HE
DIDN'T SAY THAT THIS TIME, HE'S
BEEN MORE CIRCUMSPECT BUT THAT
IS VERY AT ODDS WITH WHAT IS
SUPPOSED TO BE, BUT EVERYONE ON
THE SITE IS NOT IMPARTIAL HERE
&gt;&gt; THAT IS SOMETHING, A LOT OF
THESE MEMBERS ARE NOT EVEN
MAKING AN EFFORT TO PUT ON THE
ILLUSION OF IMPARTIALITY PICK
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH
, JAMES, I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO
THANK RHONDA, THANK YOU FOR YOUR
REPORTING AND ANALYSIS ON THIS
CRITICALLY IMPORTANT TODAY.
THANK YOU FOR OUR VIEWERS FOR
CHOOSING TO WATCH THIS HISTORIC
TRIAL WITH THE NEWSROOM OF THE
WASHINGTON POST, WE WILL BE BACK
HERE TOMORROW MORNING, 11:00 AM
IS WHEN WE WILL GET STARTED AS
THE TRIAL CONTINUES WITH THE
DEFENSE OF DONALD TRUMP.
&gt;&gt;&gt; SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO SEE TO
BELIEVE, SOMETIMES WAITING ISN'T
AN OPTION, WHEN THE NEWS IS
BREAKING, WATCH WHAT
THE NEWSROOM OF THE WASHINGTON
POST, WE EXPLAIN WHAT IS
HAPPENING AND WHY IT MATTERS,
THANK YOU FOR CHOOSING TO WATCH
THE HEADLINES AS THEY ARE BEING
WRITTEN WITH HER JOURNALISTS.
YOU CAN SUBSCRIBE WITH A SPECIAL
OFFER, AN ENTIRE YEAR OF THE
WASHINGTON POST FOR $29. GO TO
WASHINGTON POST.COM/
WATCH, SUBSCRIBING THROUGH THAT
LINK LETS EVERYONE HEAR FROM THE
FRONT LINES, TO THE CONTROL ROOM
, KNOW THAT YOU CARE ABOUT OUR
CONTINUED EFFORTS TO INFORM THE
PUBLIC, PROTECT THE FIRST
AMENDMENT, AND FOSTER A HEALTHY
DEMOCRACY. WE COULD NOT DO THIS
WITHOUT YOU.
&gt;&gt;&gt; SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO SEE TO
BELIEVE, SOMETIMES WAITING ISN'T
AN OPTION, WHEN THE NEWS IS
BREAKING, WATCH WITH THE
NEWSROOM OF THE WASHINGTON POST,
WE EXPLAIN WHAT IS HAPPENING AND
WHY IT MATTERS, THANK YOU FOR
CHOOSING TO WATCH THE HEADLINES.
&gt;&gt;&gt; SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO SEE TO
BELIEVE, SOMETIMES WAITING ISN'T
AN OPTION, WHEN THE NEWS IS
BREAKING, WATCH WITH THE
NEWSROOM OF THE WASHINGTON POST,
WE EXPLAIN WHAT IS HAPPENING.
&gt;&gt;&gt; SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO SEE TO
BELIEVE, SOMETIMES WAITING ISN'T
AN OPTION. WHEN THE NEWS IS
BREAKING,
WATCH WITH THE NEWSROOM OF THE
WASHINGTON POST. WE EXPLAIN
WHAT'S HAPPENING, AND WHY IT
MATTERS. THANK YOU FOR CHOOSING
TO WATCH THE HEADLINES AS THEY
ARE BEING WRITTEN WITH HER
JOURNALISTS. YOU CAN SUBSCRIBE.